I was just listening to the F1 theme
song to get pumped up.
>> Me too. Were you really?
>> Yes. It's so good.
>> I just got new speakers here in Acquired
HQ North and actually thanks to a
recommendation from a listener in the
Acquired Slack and yeah, it was bumping
>> amazing.
>> All right, let's do this.
>> Let's do this.
>> Who got the truth?
Is it you? Is it? Is it you? Who got the
truth?
Is it
me down?
Another story on the way.
>> Welcome to the spring 2026 season of
Acquired, the podcast about great
companies and the stories and playbooks
behind them. I'm Ben Gilbert.
>> I'm David Rosenthal.
>> And we are your hosts. Today we dive
into a sport that started in the 1930s
that began for the pure love of
autoracing. extremely dangerous auto
racing. Then after World War II, the
British Air Force veterans and
mechanical engineers joined the sport to
push the limits of technology and
physics. It eventually became the sport
of rich guys who want to own teams to
gallivant around Europe, losing colossal
sums of money along the way. And in
fact, David, since the sport began, over
100 separate teams have entered and
exited the competition, mostly because
they went bankrupt. And today, the sport
has been dragged kicking and screaming
into being professionally managed and is
now owned by the publicly traded US
company that has owned the Atlanta
Braves, SiriusXM, and Live Nation. That
is Liberty Media. And against all odds,
Liberty has managed to turn the sport,
the teams, and the drivers into real
viable businesses. Today's episode,
listeners, is on Formula 1, the world's
premier motorsport series. Woo. I was
going to save this for um later in the
episode, but do you know what else among
the many other like hundreds of
companies that Liberty has owned? Do you
know what else they owned? You won't
guess it because there's so many. Excite
at home.
>> No way.
>> From our Google series
>> throwback. That's awesome. Well,
listeners, really what we're doing here
today with Formula 1, it's three sports
in one. It is, of course, the world's
best race car drivers showcasing their
skills, but it's also the World Cup of
Engineering. These days, it's fair to
say that the races are more determined
by the design feats of the thousand plus
people that work on each car than the
drivers. And Formula 1 is the only
motorsport in the world that requires a
team to design and build their own car
from scratch, which is an insane
engineering feat to enter the
competition. And as one listener put it
to us, it's also the World Cup of Office
Politics. Or as another one put it, it's
Real Housewives of the garage, which
that makes for a fantastic Netflix show.
>> Oh, does it ever. We might talk about
that towards the end of the episode
here.
>> Yes. The sport itself is completely
insane. It is a grid of 20 drivers
competing at over 200 mph in races that
last 190 miles. And they do this every
week or two in a different city around
the world. They load the entire circus,
the cars, the teams, the hospitality
onto a fleet of seven Boeing 7s between
races and they set up shop in 24
different cities from Monaco to Bahrain
to Melbourne, Australia. Each car costs
$20 million to make and hundreds of
millions of dollars to develop. The cars
have three to 600 sensors on them. And
shockingly to me as an American, David,
I don't know if you knew this before we
started researching. It's actually the
world's most popular annual sporting
series with over 827
million viewers.
>> Yeah, I had no idea until we started
researching because we're Americans
>> and you know the Olympics and the World
Cup don't count because they're every
two and four years. So pretty crazy.
Listeners, starting in just 5 days, a
season will kick off that's going to see
some of the biggest changes in the sport
in decades. So, we've got new
regulations, which means all new car
designs, an expansion to an 11th team
with Cadillac, Audi and Ford are also
entering the sport, and a brand new
broadcast partner in the US in Apple TV.
And well, uh, everything got much more
professionalized. It's still owned by a
bunch of rich guys who love auto racing.
>> They're just no longer money losing rich
guys.
>> That's right. So listeners, just like
our NFL, NBA, and IPL cricket episodes,
this show is about the business of F1.
So, uh, we apologize in advance if we
don't spend time on your favorite
rivalry or regulation detail or the V10
engine sound. You can join the email
list to get updates every time an
episode drops at acquired.fm/e.
You get to vote on future episodes. And
the email list is just getting much,
much better. So, we now have episode
summaries, our big takeaways, and
exclusive photos from our research
process. That's acquired.fm/email.
Chat about this afterwards with us with
the whole acquired community in the
Slack. Acquired.fm/slack.
And before we dive in, we want to thank
our presenting sponsor JP Morgan
Payments. Yes. And just like how we say
every company has a story, every
company's story is powered by payments.
and JP Morgan Payments is a part of so
many of their journeys from seed to IPO
and beyond.
>> So with that, this show is not
investment advice. David and I may have
investments in the companies we discuss
and this show is forformational and
entertainment purposes only. David
Rosenthal, where do we dive in? Well,
first off, we owe a huge thank you to
Joshua Robinson and Jonathan Kle who are
the sports editors over at the Wall
Street Journal and just recently
published I think the best business
history book of Formula 1 called The
Formula. It was one of the main sources
for this episode and uh they both
actually helped us in the research. So,
thank you guys.
>> Yep. So, Ben, Formula 1 as we know it
really started after World War II in
1950. But unlike a traditional company
or even many of the sports leagues that
we've studied over the years, it doesn't
have a exact sort of founding moment.
Its origins are really part and parcel
with the beginning of motor racing
itself. So, it didn't take long after
the invention of the modern automobile,
which is generally agreed upon to be by
Carl Benz in Germany in the late 1800s,
that people had the idea to start
>> racing racing. I mean, after all, like
people raced horses, why wouldn't they
race cars, too?
>> Y
>> So, throughout the first few decades of
the 1900s, various automobile clubs
popped up across Europe, and they would
host these races. They'd sell tickets
and advertising to fund prize purses and
drivers and manufacturers would travel
from all over the world to compete in
these races. 1906, the Automobile Club
of France, which was the largest in
Europe at the time, hosts an inaugural
race just to the southwest of Paris
called Lemon, Lan.
And this group of organizers, they
decide to call this Lemon race by a very
literal name in order to attract
spectators and participants. They call
it the Grand Prix de Lemon. Literally
translated as the big prize.
>> It's great. Carries all the way forward
to this day.
>> Yes. The names in this sport are very
literal.
So the success of this Leong Grand Prix
causes a bunch of similar races to pop
up across Europe all throughout the
teens and 20s copying the same rules or
formula as the Automobile Club of
France. You had Monza pop up in Italy.
You had the Monte Carlo race in Monaco.
You had the Nurburg Ring in Germany,
etc., etc., etc. You've probably heard
of all these places.
>> Yep. Eventually in the 1920s all the
major European automobile clubs get
together in Paris and they say why don't
we centralize oversight of this formula
into one international organization and
that becomes after a series of name
changes over the years the Federas
International Delotmobile
or the FIA which still exists today and
still administers the rules of Formula
1. And as Josh and Jonathan point out in
the book, the sport is literally named
after the rule book.
>> There's a lot of fighting about the
rules in this sport, both when they're
setting the rules every few years and in
races when they're going up to yell at
the race stewards, oh, this is illegal,
this is not illegal. Anyone who is sort
of complaining that this sport is too
into the rules, needs to remember it is
named after them.
>> It's named after the rule book. Yes.
>> Yes.
>> Okay. So at this point, you've got all
these Grand Prix and these famous
racetracks that you know today, and you
have the FIA as this sort of rules body
overseeing the common regulations
amongst them, but they're all
independent events. There's no
championship series. There's no league.
There's one winner at the end of each
race and then you go to the next race.
>> Yeah.
>> There a couple attempts before World War
II to create a championship series, but
they all fizzle and then of course the
war disrupts everything. After the war,
however, there's renewed interest.
Everybody wants to have a world drivers
championship. And so in 1949, the FIA
announces the inaugural Grand Prix World
Championship for Formula 1 drivers, a
global drivers competition of seven of
the most prestigious Grand Prix races
set to begin the following May 13th with
the running of the British Grand Prix at
the Silverstone
Circuit in England. And that becomes the
first race of the first season
officially of F1
>> 1950.
>> Now there really are three sort of
foundational pillars of this early era
of the sport. There's one in the UK,
there's one in Monaco and there's one in
Italy. So taking them in turn first in
the UK. Britain was and is the heart of
the sport both in the early days and all
the way through to today. So today 70%
of the F1 teams are based in the UK.
Really the only notable exception is
Ferrari which of course is in Italy.
>> Yes. All of these teams despite having
such different cultures and opinions and
rivalries a giant amount of their
employees at least on the technical side
work in a very small area in the English
Midlands within tens of miles of each
other.
>> Yes. It's like very you know seemingly
random. So why was the UK and this weird
part in the middle of the country like
the natural home of F1? If anything,
given the proto history, it should have
been France or maybe Germany. Well,
after World War II, Britain had been, as
you alluded to in the intro, absolutely
the right set of circumstances for this
all to come together. Yep.
>> One, unlike Germany, they'd actually
just won the war, but the country was in
bad shape and like in desperate need of
entertainment and redevelopment. And
then, unlike France, Britain had a ton
of empty airfields and lots and lots of
newly unemployed British fighter pilots
and mechanics. And what better way to,
you know, redevelop the infrastructure
in the heart of the rural area of the
country than to put all of these people
and abandoned airfields to work racing
fast cars. And much like the development
of Silicon Valley, which we talked about
in our Loheed Martin episode, there's
sort of this positive feedback loop that
keeps that area the main area for this.
So there's universities that specialize
in aerodynamics and engine design and
mechanical engineering. It's still the
best place to source talent to build an
F1 team.
>> Yeah. Even the teams that are owned and
nominally operated by companies in other
countries, most of them still base their
actual operations in the countryside in
the UK for this reason.
>> Yep. So, one of these newly unemployed
Royal Air Force pilots is a man named
Colin Chapman who also happened to be a
mechanical engineer in addition to a
former pilot and who along with Enzo
Ferrari probably did more than any
single person to shape the first era of
F1. So Chapman founded the Lotus Racing
Team in 1952 with 25 pounds as his
initial startup capital in a set of
empty stables in North London. Even then
25 British pounds was not enough to
build a car capable of racing an F1. So
he had to have another way of making
money. In parallel, he also started the
Lotus road car business, which quickly
became, you know, look, hey, it's not
Ferrari, but like decently successful.
>> In fact, the first uh Tesla Roadster was
based on a Lotus Elise chassis.
>> That's right. So, in 1958, Chapman
finally has enough capital together to
build an F1 car. He enters his first car
in Formula 1, and he revolutionizes the
sport. I mean, today teams are super
professional operations with hundreds of
engineers and tons of equipment. Back
then, it was much more like the early
days of the NFL. You have like one or a
couple people who are team owners,
managers, coaches, and sometimes also
players or drivers.
>> Yes. And it says a lot that there
actually was not a constructor's
championship when it first got started.
That wasn't until 1958.
>> Yes. It was just about the drivers,
>> right? It was just the drivers
championship
>> because often these were the same
people,
>> right? So for anybody who follows the
sport today, there's sort of two
different things you're competing for.
Can the driver individually win the
season or can the team between its two
drivers win the constructor's
championship called constructor's
championship? Of course, because each of
these teams is required to construct
their own vehicle.
>> Yep. And enter two cars and thus two
drivers in the competition. So Chapman
was the first constructor to realize
that building a winning race car wasn't
just about adding more horsepower to the
engine,
>> which was kind of the Ferrari prevailing
people at the time.
>> That was Enzo's, you know, arguably till
he died, what he really cared about was
power. Chapman had a great quote on
this. He said, "Adding power makes you
faster in the streets. Subtracting
weight makes you faster everywhere." So
he realized like a whole bunch of stuff
that like being lighter is better,
having better handling is better because
it's not like these racetracks are like
NASCAR racetracks where the cars just go
around in a circle. There's all these
technical corners, there's hairpin
turns, there's chicanees, there's double
apexes. It's a very technical sport, not
just from the engineering for the cars,
but also for the drivers.
>> Yep. There's one other very important
element that Colin Chapman introduces to
the sport during his time in F1, which
was sponsor logos on the cars. So, until
Chapman adds sponsorship to his cars,
all the F1 cars had just been painted
whatever color the FIA assigned their
country.
>> Yes. And that's how you have silver with
Mercedes and British racing green and of
course Ferrari red.
>> And they stick to this day. So Chapman
when he goes out in the 60s and finds a
sponsor to, you know, finance his
building activities, he paints his
lotuses red and white in the corporate
colors of his new sponsor, Gold Leaf
Tobacco. And this is the start of one of
the most important partnerships in F1
history, Fast Cars and Cigarette
Companies.
>> Yes. And this was illegal for a long
time. The FIA did not allow you to have
sponsorship. And then they realized,
okay, we're being too much a purist
about this. these teams are all going to
go out of business, but there are
companies lining up to try to pay them
to put the logo on it. Okay, this is the
way to make the sport viable.
>> Yep. Ironic because then the EU would
legislate tobacco advertising and
sponsorship out of existence in the
early 2000s once again. But it's
actually really weird. Go look at any of
the sports historical greats like Senna
or Michael Schumacher or Alan Pros. They
all had the Marbor logo all over them
>> or John Player Special. I mean, there
were these cigarette companies, some of
which I'd never even heard of, but
they're so dominant on the cars for a
long time there that you actually don't
see the team name. At least on the
liveries now, you see the team name and
their big sponsors. This looked like it
was team Marlro Racing or team John
Player Special, not you know, McLaren or
>> Yeah. I mean, they actually painted the
cars to look like cigarette boxes going
down the track. Yep.
>> Unfortunately, his story has a sort of
strange and sad ending. Did you find
this, Ben?
>> Oh, yes.
>> Yeah. So, in the uh late 70s and early
80s, he gets tied up in an embezzlement
scheme with John Delorean. Chapman
designed the chassis for the DMC12, you
know, like the Back to the Future car,
>> which would be awesome if the car didn't
suck and the company didn't end in a
giant scandal.
>> Totally. The company collapsed and
British prosecutors accused John
Delorean and Colin Chapman of each
embezzling $8 million in government
incentives that they supposedly were
going to use to build the factory.
Chapman dies of a heart attack once this
comes out at age 54. Truly sadly. And
then Delorean goes on to be arrested by
an FBI sting in LA attempting to buy 220
pounds of cocaine with the intent to
distribute to like pay off his debts for
Delorean. Man, you can't make this stuff
up.
>> He was a man with a dream. David.
>> Yeah.
>> Through all of this though, the cowboy
nature of the teams, the individual
iconoclastic owner, mechanic
slashdesignerd drivers, the cigarette
money, the vague or not so vague whiff
of fraud that totally embodies the early
era of F1. It was the wild west in
Europe.
>> Yep. And just so people can really
picture it, I think you kind of know
what an F1 car looks like now. Uh an
open wheel car with a giant spoiler or
rear wing. It's got a front wing. When
we first started here in 1950 and really
even into the '60s, too, these cars
didn't look anything like that.
>> They look like soapbox derby cars.
>> That's exactly right. Almost like little
bullets.
>> Yep. So the UK contribution and the
Chapman story really reflects this wild
west aspect of F1. If that's all there
was in the beginnings of the sport, I
don't think we'd be doing this episode
today. Right around the same time that
Lotus is coming into the league, there's
another very different founding pillar
number two of F1 taking place in Monaco,
which is that in 1956, the sovereign
Prince Reineer III of Monaco, as we
talked about at great length in our
Hermes episode, married the American
movie actress Grace Kelly and brought
her to live in the Prince's Palace of
Monaco. This brings together all of the
oldw world luxury and heritage and
legitimacy of Europe with the glitz and
the glamour of Hollywood and the new
world in a way that's still very much
part of F1 today. I mean basically this
marriage was like the 20th century's
version of you know Travis and Taylor
the NFL and you know Swifty crossover
like it was the crossover event of the
century. So, as we said a minute ago,
there had been Grand Prix races on the
streets of Monaco for many years going
back to before World War II, and the
track and the location was already quite
prestigious. But when Princess Grace
comes to the party, things go to a whole
new level. So, all of her Hollywood
circles start coming out to the race to
visit her. And conveniently on the race
calendar, it, you know, just happens to
coincide with the Ken Film Festival
right up the road in Ken in France. So
Frank Sinatra becomes a regular attendee
to the Monaco Grand Prix, the Beatles,
the Rolling Stones, etc., etc.
Eventually, many, not most of the F1
drivers start moving to Monaco and
becoming stars themselves. I mean, like
today, Lewis Hamilton, Max Verstoppen,
Charleslair, Lando Norris, they all live
in Monaco.
>> Well, it also has some tax benefits.
>> Yeah, it also has some tax benefits. But
for anybody who has been to Monaco or
seen pictures of Monaco or really any
towns sort of on the French Riviera in
that area, you might think, "Wait, but
it's like cliff side and the streets are
all really narrow and old and winding.
These cars that we were talking about at
that time, it kind of made sense to race
those cars in these types of
environments. It makes a lot less sense
now. There's no chance they would add
Monaco, with the cars being the size
that they are today, to the race
calendar. Yep. But there's also no
chance that they would ever get rid of
Monaco. This is what brings luxury into
the sport. And today, again, also this
doesn't seem that radical. It's part of
sports league setup playbook 101. Like
look at, you know, our episode on the
IPL. This was so far ahead of its time
back in the 1950s and also totally by
accident. Which leads us then to the
third Italian founding pillar of F1,
Ferrari. Undeniably the most important
team, company and person of this first
age of F1 was Enzo Ferrari. Enzo
actually founded the company before
World War II purely as a racing company.
>> Yeah. Wasn't he racing Alfa Romeo cars?
>> Yes, that was the purpose of the company
was to race Alfa Romeo cars.
>> Also a red racing team because they were
Italian.
>> Yes, indeed. Ferrari itself didn't start
making cars until after World War II.
But of course, when the F1 championship
series starts in 1950, Enzo has to join.
This is the pinnacle of racing. And
Ferrari is the only team that's been
part of every single F1 season going all
the way back to the beginning.
>> There's a funny thing here where you
might think, oh, Formula 1, that's the
big established series that legitimizes
an automaker by being a part of it. It
actually works the other way with
Ferrari. Ferrari participating in
Formula 1 legitimizes the series.
Ferrari, if they ever decided to stop
racing in Formula 1, would make people
go, "Oh, so what is the big racing
series?" Yes, totally. Formula 1 is
actually the marriage of two separate
things. The teams and the racetracks.
Unlike just about every other sport out
there, these are separate entities. It'd
be like if the Seahawks, you know, were
a team that would play wherever,
>> whenever they could get a game going
>> and they didn't have any relationship
with, you know, Lumenfield in Seattle.
So, what Formula 1 the organization is
doing is they are bringing this set of
teams and this set of racetracks on the
calendar, this set of Grand Prix
together.
>> And in the early days, it was kind of a
different set of teams and drivers at
each of the Grand Prix. who can we get
to come race at this track when and it
would come together in a very haphazard
way.
>> So, back to Enzo and Ferrari. Unlike
Chapman and Lotus and the Brits, Enzo
actually had business sense. He was an
entrepreneur and he was the first person
who realized that there was an
absolutely incredible business
opportunity at the intersection of these
really fast cars, these sort of
legitimizing racing heritage and all the
glitz and the glamour and the wealth of
the celebrity that was represented by
Monaco. And that opportunity was selling
fast cars to the rich and famous.
>> Yep. So Ferrari pretty quickly after
World War II becomes a legitimate luxury
brand. I think you could maybe even
argue they are the only legitimate
luxury brand established in the second
half of the 20th century.
>> Oh, that's interesting. Yeah. And it's
very impressive how fast it happened.
>> Before the war, it was Enzo racing a
bunch of Alfa Romeos
>> and then suddenly it's Ferrari,
>> right? because as he's participating in
F1, Enzo's also handmaking cars for all
the European royalty and all the
American movie stars that are flowing
through F1. And so just like the
equestrian heritage kind of serves as
the like legitimizing soul of Hermes,
motor racing in F1 serves as the
legitimizing soul of Ferrari. It's just
that they were co-developed together
here in the 50s and 60s after World War
II. H.
>> So, we need to talk much more about
Ferrari on another episode of its own.
>> Oh, yeah. We should do a Ferrari episode
>> for the purposes of F1. They really were
that unifying factor that pulled
together the glitz and the glamour and
the luxury and the hardcore racing
because the Ferrari cars became this
tangible way that fans, even though they
couldn't afford to buy them, could
relate to what was happening on the
track by dreaming about buying these
road cars that they saw their favorite
celebrities or, you know, royal monarchs
driving around. Because a lot of these
other teams are building one or two or
three cars period and they're racing
them and then that's it.
>> Yep. Totally. Whereas with Ferrari,
probably every boy growing up around the
world, you know, myself included,
probably you too, like has had a poster
of a Ferrari or a model of a Ferrari in
their bedrooms.
>> Okay. So, you might be wondering where
are the Germans in all of this? We've
talked about the Brits with Colin
Chapman. We talked about Monaco. We
talked about Ferrari. In the 50s,
Mercedes actually was a major player in
Formula 1 and auto racing. But while
they were racing one of their cars in Le
Man, it actually crashed and killed 82
people.
>> Oh, yeah. It was one of the worst
disasters in motor racing history.
>> They actually pulled out of I think all
racing and they didn't return to Formula
1 for another 40 years. That accident
was so devastating that four of the
remaining Grand Prix were cancelled.
Racing was just so dangerous in this
time. I mean, you had 14 deaths in F1
alone, not even counting other racing
series or audience attendees across this
first decade.
>> Totally. Mortal danger was actually, I
think, a core part of the appeal of the
sport in those early days. What better
to go along with all your glitz and
glamour than an element of mortal
danger? These guys were gladiators. They
were risking their life every time they
got in a car. In the 1950s, you had 14
deaths. So that's 1.4 a year. In the
1960s, you also had 14 deaths plus 15
spectators. In the 1961 Italian Grand
Prix crash in the 1970s didn't get much
better. You had another 12 deaths. And
then it starts to get safer from there,
and we'll talk about all that later. But
the first three decades, you were on
about a one to two death per year rate.
>> So that's five to 10% of the entire
racing field would die every year. Yep.
And there were many, many more crashes
and many, many more injuries. These were
just fatalities. Famously, Nikki Laua's
head caught on fire and he was scarred
for the rest of his life.
>> Yeah. And then he was back out racing
several weeks later. It's insane.
>> It's unbelievable.
>> So, back to Ferrari, though. He's really
the entrepreneur that figures out how to
build a real big business at the
intersection of everything that's going
on here. He's just doing it through his
road car business. There's a great quote
from another team owner during this era
and it goes, "Formula 1 is Ferrari and
Ferrari is Formula 1. It's that simple."
This is another team owner that is
saying that like a competitive team to
Ferrari. And you might know who the team
owner was who said that quote.
>> Oh, it's Bernie.
>> Yep. It was the person who quite
literally would replace Enzo in that
quote. Bernie Eckleston, the uh supremo
imprario
owner of F1.
>> Owner of some part of F1, but controller
of all of F1.
>> So Josh and Jonathan in the formula book
have a great quote about Bernie and
Ferrari. As it turned out, no one would
get richer off the Ferrari mystique than
Bernie, a man who has never once
employed in Marinelo.
>> Yep.
>> And that will be our protagonist today.
But before we begin Bernie's tale, now
is a great time to thank our presenting
partner, JP Morgan Payments.
>> Yes, the modern sports fan experience
extends far beyond just attending an
event. The entire customer journey from
tickets to concessions and merch,
practically every touch point involves a
payment. And when they're fast and
frictionless, it makes the entire
experience better for fans and the
business behind it. As you've heard us
talk about, JP Morgan is always
investing in the latest technology and
hardware for seamless transactions and
ironically making the payment stage
effectively invisible. Take biometric
payments. Our live show at Chase Center
was one of the first events there to
offer JP Morgan's pay by face experience
at concession kiosks. We tried it
ourselves. The technology is awesome.
You enroll on your phone, you just scan
your face at the kiosk and then you've
paid. No phone or card or anything
needed so you can get back to your seat
faster.
>> So flash forward to today. JP Morgan
Payments literally set the benchmark for
bringing this endto-end biometric
checkout solution to market. They just
earned best-in-class honors for it. And
David and I know that having the most
cutting edge payments technology like
biometrics might not be a top priority
for your business today, but it doesn't
have to be. And that's the point.
>> Exactly. JP Morgan is thinking about all
this and investing ahead so you don't
have to. Whether you're looking for next
generation hardware, payments APIs, or
you simply want more payment flexibility
and security, their all-in-one global
payments infrastructure is what sets
them apart. They help companies of all
sizes thrive in today's fastchanging
digital economy. You get what you need
now with the ability to scale as your
business grows and technology advances.
So, if you want to learn about how JP
Morgan Payments powers seamless
experiences for fans and businesses
across all industries, check out
jpmorggan.com/acquired
to discover what solutions can help
accelerate growth for your business.
Okay, so David, enter Bernie Eccleston.
>> Bernie Eckleston.
So Bernie was born in 1930 and he was a
hard scrabble kid. He grew up in
Suffach, which is to the northeast of
London. His dad was a commercial
fisherman and his mom was a
authoritarian homemaker according to
many biographies about him. You never
really know what the legends about
Bernie, but that's the story at least as
he wanted it told.
>> Yep. After the war, Bernie ends up
getting into the uh wheeler dealer
business in London with surplus cars and
motorcycles from the war. He opens his
own showroom in the outskirts of London
where he starts to specialize in selling
luxury automobiles to the newly rich and
famous. Basically, he becomes like the
London celebrities car guy. You know,
you got your jewelry guy, your clothes
guy, you got your drugs guy in the 60s,
you got your car guy. Birdie's the car
guy.
>> People refer to him as a former used car
dealer, but that's not really right.
>> Yeah. Well, I mean, it is right. He
started that way.
>> It's like calling someone else's puzzle
dial Rolex a used watch, you know? It's
not really used.
>> No. No. It's like, you want a Ferrari or
you want a Bugatti? Hold the phone. Let
me make some calls and see if I can get
you one.
>> Right. There's also always been plenty
of gossip over the years that Bernie was
involved in more um underground
activities, shall we say, at the time.
And Bernie himself would encourage this.
So, specifically, there was a
long-standing rumor that Bernie was the
mastermind behind the great train
robbery of 1963,
where 2.6 million pounds was stolen from
a British Royal Mail Train. This is like
one of the most famous train robberies
in history.
Bernie loved this speculation. It's so
in 2005, a long time later, he finally
addressed it
>> when he's what, 70 years old or
something.
>> Yeah, 75 years old. He gives a quote to
the media when asked about it. There
wasn't enough money on that train for me
to be involved. I could have done
something bigger.
You start to get a flavor of, you know,
who Birdie is,
>> which actually is correct given what he
would go on to do.
>> Very correct. 2.6 million pounds. That's
jump change. So, criminal mastermind or
not, Bernie is smart. Once he gets into
hawking cars to the new money rich folks
in London, he doesn't just sell them the
cars. He also steers them into
financing, which I think is basically
how car dealers make money. They mark up
the cars a little bit, but then they
really get you on the financing and the
servicing fees, etc., etc. And when
you're selling really expensive cars,
the financing fees start to add up. So
this nets Bernie his first small
fortune. Now the deeper that he gets
into this luxury auto world, Bernie has
the same realization that Enzo Ferrari
had a decade or two earlier, which is
that motorsport and racing is the
legitimizing heritage of all of these
fast luxury cars. So, just like Enzo
himself, Bernie wants to have his
dealership and his brand associated with
Formula 1. So, in the mid60s, Bernie
starts hanging around with F1 drivers.
And being the Wheeler dealer that he is,
he pretty quickly becomes the agent for
a few of his pals, negotiating better
deals for them with their teams for
their salaries, you know, for a small
fee, of course.
>> Yes, of course. Eventually, he cooks up
a scheme with one of his star clients
who actually drives for Lotus for Colin
Chapman, a driver named Yoken Rint to
leave Lotus and buy a team together for
themselves. They're going to become not
just the talent. Yoken's going to become
an owner. Yoken at the time, he's one of
the best drivers in the world. He's on
top of the standings in F1. He's blowing
away the field throughout the 1970
season. And then tragically during his
practice session at the fourth to last
Grand Prix of the season crashes and is
killed and Rent and Chapman were
constantly fighting about the safety of
the Lotuses that he was driving. Rint
was so far ahead of the pack in the
standings when he was killed that he
would actually win the driver's
championship that year.
>> Oh, he still won, right?
>> Yeah. Postumously. He's the only driver
ever to um win a championship. So, he
got zero points in all of the races
after his death, but he was so far ahead
that he still won.
>> Bernie, as the story goes, is devastated
after Ren's death. And to honor the
memory of his friend, he decides that
he's going to carry through on the plan
that they had together, the dream they
had. And in 1972, Bernie buys the Brabom
F1 team for a h 100,000 British pounds,
which would be about 2.3 million today.
Today, I think every single F1 team is
worth at least one a half billion, I
think, is the floor.
>> That's exactly right.
>> Uh Bernie doesn't make that much money
on the Bravom team, as we will see. But
>> he sells it for what, five million
later?
>> Five million a couple years later. Yeah.
So, uh, you know, a nice return, but
definitely the fact that team valuations
go from £100,000 to a floor of one and a
half billion is thanks to Bernie.
>> Well, thanks to Bernie for part of it
and then specifically thanks to Bernie
leaving after that.
>> Yes, for the other part of it as we will
get into. So when Bernie buys the Brabom
team in 1972,
along with it, he also gains membership
into the quote formula 1 constructors
association. Now this is a very loose
organization.
Organization is being generous here of
all the team owners that Colin Chapman
had actually kind of taken the lead in
pulling together back in 1963 with the
original purpose. solely of coordinating
joint travel and transport logistics to
getting their teams and cars to all the
various races around the world. It's
like, hey, you're my bitter rivals. I
never want to associate with you. I
battle to the death with you out on the
tracks. But
>> we are going to the same place.
>> We're going to the same place. Why don't
we share a ride, so to speak?
>> And today, actually, Formula 1
management does handle all this. And I
think they make a little bit of profit
on it. Like it's a service that they
sort of sell to teams. a tiny amount of
profit relative to the rest of it, but
they handle the logistics of moving the
whole circus around the world.
>> Yep. Well, one thing I can guarantee is
that once Bernie takes it over, he's
definitely making a profit on it.
So, Bernie, when he joins this owner's
table, shall we say, pretty quickly
realizes a couple things. One, except
for Enzo Ferrari, none of these other
guys have a lick of business sense. All
they care about is fast cars and winning
races. Whatever money they have or don't
have, it's all going down the tubes in
pursuit of victory.
The second thing he realizes is that
except for Ferrari, and by this point in
time, Enzo has sold half the company to
Fiat, so he has major resources behind
him in Italy, none of these other guys
actually have any real money. I mean,
for God's sakes, Colin Chapman is about
to nearly go to jail over a $8 million
embezzlement case with Delorean. $8
million went a lot farther back in the
70s. But these cars are quickly becoming
very expensive, and the teams are
becoming very expensive to run. There is
not a sustainable way to run a team. I
think the average tenure over the entire
existence of Formula 1 is about six
years for a given team. Just to make
this exact point, here is the list of F1
teams in 1972, the year that Bernie buys
into the league. Lotus, Tyrell, McLaren,
probably know that. Ferrari, you
definitely know that. Certis, March,
BRM, Matra, and Braum.
>> So there's two that exist today.
>> And at that point in time, only one of
them is a real business. So Bernie sees
this and he's like, "Dang, there's an
opportunity here.
All these other guys are focused on
winning races.
Yeah, I'd like to win, but I really care
about getting rich. And there's quite a
void of power here that I can insert
myself into. So, just to paint the
picture of the business state of F1 when
Bernie came into the league, each
individual team negotiated their
appearance fees with each individual
Grand Prix separately. So, they're like
a whole bunch of Grand Prix, each with
their own race promoters and organizers.
They're a whole bunch of teams, nine of
them to be exact, and they're all
negotiating separately with each other.
>> Assuming there's, I don't know, 15 races
or something, that would be 135 distinct
agreements between teams and local
races.
>> Everybody's getting paid wildly
different amounts and usually not very
much. And these things sort of need to
depend on each other because how
valuable is a race to go to if the other
teams aren't going to show up to that
one,
>> right? I mean, this is like the sports
business world's worst practice number
one. Not only is it bad for overall
revenue, you know, you have no
centralized leverage over the tracks if
you're all negotiating separately. To
your point, Ben, it's just plain bad for
the sport.
>> How are you supposed to sell tickets and
tell fans they should come if
>> right? You don't know if Ferrari's going
to show up or if McLaren's going to show
up. There's no way to know as a fan
until you actually showed up at the
racetrack who was going to be there.
The other aspect of the sport that I say
would be in shambles, but wasn't even in
shambles because it didn't exist, was
broadcast and television and promotion.
There was none of it.
>> Yeah. Thankfully, Bernie came along
before that became too big. I mean, can
you imagine if each of these racetracks
was trying to do their own media rights
deal?
>> I mean, he came along at the perfect
time. It was already criminally too late
that F1 and the Grand Prix hadn't gotten
to television. I mean, we're talking
about the mid70s. If you look over at
the NFL in America, they're already
making like 50 million plus a year in
broadcast rights.
>> Yeah, it was 10 years into their I think
1961 was their first national broadcast
deal. I mean, they had already launched
Monday Night Football in 1970. It's not
like there wasn't a playbook for this
out there.
>> Yes.
>> F1, meanwhile, is just as, if not more,
popular, is a global sport, has great
demographics, and is making zero dollars
in meteorites. So Bernie shows up. He's
hardly a media professional here. But
even he can see that there's room for
improvement on both of these fronts.
>> Even before realizing, hey, media rights
are going to be super valuable. The
thing that he clearly sees is
centralizing these negotiations is going
to be the way to extract the most value.
>> Yes, there's two opportunities here. The
near-term easy one is centralize the
negotiations with the racetracks,
extract the most value, capture a bunch
of it for myself. And then there's a
longer term play of like, oo, what can I
do about these television deals? I think
it's actually worth one more quick pause
here to compare contrast Formula 1 in
the NFL and Bernie and Pete Riselle
because these are sort of happening at
the same time. But Bernie is like the
anti- Pete Riselle.
You know, Pete Riselle was this consmate
manager, professional media guy from Los
Angeles. He started as the LA Rams PR
guy and then he gets drafted by the
owners of the NFL to be an employee of
the league to serve them and their
interests as commissioner and the league
is owned 32 ways by the owners of the
teams.
>> Right? So Roselle's unifying vision to
the NFL owners was communist capitalism
as we talked about on that episode. Like
hey, this league first, we're all in
this together. Let's centralize our
negotiating and our media rights so that
we can all grow the pie and share the
spoils evenly. Bernie's MMO isn't league
first, it's me first.
He does centralize things, but it's not
like Formula 1 becomes owned by all the
teams equally. It's more like he says,
"Okay, I'm going to start a company, and
that company is going to go sign
agreements with racetracks, and then
you're all open to do business with me
to figure out what it's going to be like
for you to race at those racetracks."
>> Yep. So, the way he does this, he
proposes to the other team owners, hey,
obviously we need to centralize our
negotiations, and you know, I can tell
that you guys don't want to do this, or
you would have already done it. Why
don't you just leave it to me? I'll take
care of everything. You give me your
rights for your team appearances and I
will go fight with these race promoters,
many of whom are probably gangsters
themselves, and I will get us the best
collective deal. I'll tell you what, I
will even take all the risk and
guarantee to all of you other guys
upfront that you're going to get paid at
least as much as you're making now. Um,
and you must come to the races. That was
the teeth. No more of this like I might
show up, I might not.
>> Yes, that was also part of the
motivation of we got to fix the sport.
Nobody says, "So, I'll do all this and
I'll just take a small fee off the top
for my services." Supposedly, in the
meeting of the constructor's
association, he verbally says that he
will only take 2% of the total race fee
revenue off the top for his services.
>> Really? But of course, nobody writes
anything down because Bernie never
writes anything down. And when the dust
finally gets settled and many decades
later, all of the books and stuff become
public through whole series of court
cases. Turns out Bernie's actually
taking 8% off the top for his fees,
which is, you know, a healthy amount. In
addition, he's also an owner of one of
the teams, so he's getting his owner
split. Honestly, 8% is not bad. If you
are massively increasing the amount that
every team is getting paid by doing this
and you are sort of like organizing and
orchestrating the sport, taking 8% for
those services, it seems quite
reasonable.
>> Absolutely great point and you are 100%
correct. Bernie is doing a great service
for all the F1 teams and owners. He is
instantly making the sport a lot more
valuable
>> and sustainable.
>> And sustainable. Totally.
>> Every single team would go bankrupt
except Ferrari otherwise.
>> Yep. So before Bernie gets there, the
average prize purses and payments that
teams would get from a Grand Prix. And
obviously they varied wildly, but on
average it was like $10,000 per team. So
like nothing. In Bernie's first year
running the show, he takes the average
prize and fee payment up to $40,000 a
year. So 4x in one year and then a
couple years later by the mid70s it's up
to 150k per race. And then by the end of
the decade he's gotten it up to 200k. So
like massive massive improvements
>> per team per race. Yeah. So suddenly you
can start to actually fund your
operation if you know that every time
you show up to the track you're getting
200k to do it.
>> As Bernie would never fail to point out,
all of the other team owners should be
massively grateful to him for
essentially saving their asses here at
funding their teams. Yep. And back to
the original purpose of the
constructor's association of
coordinating travel costs, Bernie also
goes out and negotiates competitive
rates with freight providers and
massively improves travel costs on the
logistic side of the business for the
teams. Basically, Bernie's sort of first
act in F1 reminds me of one of my
favorite sayings that I heard earlier in
my career from a mentor. He may be a
thug, but at least he's our thug.
Yes. So, it's worth taking a pause to
say the FIA is still the governing body
of the sport of this racing series. And
so, Bernie takes over this thing called
the constructor's association, but
really the FIA and their set of rules is
still governing what happens between
these teams at the racetracks. He's just
the one sort of organizing the commerce
through the constructor's association.
>> Yes. And importantly, the FIA is the one
who blesses each of the racetracks with
being a Grand Prix part of Formula 1.
>> So, what happens next? As you might
imagine, you know, these race promoters
are none too happy about this little guy
from England coming and beating them up,
>> right? Someone's aggregating all this
power in the ecosystem and they're
negotiating with us and it doesn't feel
good because they've got all this
leverage now.
>> Yep. They go to the FIA and say, "Hey,
you got to do something about this
Eccleston guy.
He thinks he's running F1." Yep. This
results in a whole series of protracted
negotiations between Bernie and the
Constructor's Association
and the FIA that finally get hammered
out in 1981 with the first Concord
agreement, which is still the name of
the roughly every five-year agreements
that govern F1 to this day. Do you know
why they're called the Concord
agreements?
>> I do. That is the physical location in
Paris of where they were negotiated,
right?
>> Yes. Of the FIA headquarters at the
Plaster Concord, which gives you a sense
here, the Plaster Concord in Paris is
one of the ritziest, most famous parts
of Paris. It was a bunch of like uh
stuffy bureaucrats.
>> And so what is the FIA? Is it a
nonprofit? Is it a government body? Is
it like an NGO?
>> It is an an NGO. That's exactly what it
is. It is an international organization
that was formed by all of the respective
European country motoring clubs. So the
FIA also regulates like rally sports,
endurance racing, etc., etc. It's not
just Formula 1. It's just that Formula 1
is the pinnacle of racing. It's a
standards body.
>> Yeah. Exactly. So in this first Concord
agreement, the two sides, Bernie and the
Constructors Association and the FIA and
Racetracks by proxy agree on four
things. One, the FIA will have full
unilateral and unchallenged jurisdiction
over the rules of the sport going
forward. The Constructor's Association
and Bernie, they have no say over the
technical rules of the sport. Two, the
constructor's association teams will
commit to showing up and participating
in every official Grand Prix race. In
return, all of the race fees and prize
money now contractually must be paid
centrally to Bernie and the
Constructor's Association.
And two, Bernie and the Constructor's
Association
will control all rights and income from
any future televising
of F1 races for the next five seasons.
>> No rights to the race organizers, no
rights to the FIA,
all the TV money flowing through Bernie,
>> which if you look today, that is the
single largest revenue stream of the
whole thing. Of course. How could it not
be?
>> Yep. So, what's interesting is both
sides here actually feel like they're
getting a pretty good deal. And to be
fair, the reason that they thought that
was the TV media rights weren't actually
worth anything yet. Well, did they put
in that the TV media rights when they do
happen, Bernie still only gets 8% and
the teams get the rest of the 92%. Or is
that yet to be negotiated?
>> Gray area.
>> Okay. Bernie thrives in the gray zone.
So at the time, European and British
television was a mostly statec
controlled with organizations like the
BBC and its peers all across Europe and
bh
behind the US in terms of monetization
and sophistication of televising
sports especially, but any kind of
media. Again, these are mostly like the
equivalent of PBS in the US. They're
public broadcasters. There's not a
competitive ecosystem. There's really
one party to go to.
>> Yep. So, the teams and the FIA and the
tracks. Yeah. Even though they're giving
up all the TV rights to Bernie, they
don't look that valuable to them.
They're like, "All right, you want to go
have a boondoggle and see if you can
figure this out? Good luck to you."
>> Right. And to be honest, it sounds hard
to film. You got these racetracks with
15 turns and cars that whiz by real fast
and crappy technology at the time to try
to film them. and you want to go do
business with the government to try to
get them to broadcast. Okay.
>> Yep.
>> Have fun.
>> So Bernie unclear if he had a vision for
this all along or if he was like, "Oo,
here's something I can grab. Let me go
see what I can do with it." Either way,
he basically executes it perfectly. So
once he gets the TV rights, he goes to
an umbrella group of all the public
broadcasters all across Europe called
the European Broadcasting Union and it
represents 92 different countries,
national public broadcasters, including
the BBC in the UK, and says, "Hey, you
have a lot of F1 fans in your respective
countries. That's a big sport in Europe.
I now have the rights to broadcast this
sport. How about I'll sell them to you
for super super super cheap. A couple
million a year for all 92 countries. So
like amvertised in aggregate basically
nothing
>> for any individual broadcaster to take
these rights.
The only thing I want them all to do is
promise to show every single race on the
calendar, not just the ones that are in
their home country.
>> So, seems like a pretty good deal,
right?
>> So, he's in grow the sport mode, right?
Not capture value right here. This is a
growth opportunity.
>> Yep. This is a long game. So, they all
say yes. And then Ben, as you were
saying a minute ago, it pretty quickly
becomes clear, hey, all 92 public
broadcasting entities don't really have
the expertise or the interest in
figuring out how to televise this sport.
Seems hard.
>> It's still true today. The way that most
of the broadcasters around the world
take F1 is they take one main feed that
is produced and then they do more stuff
on top of it.
>> So this is when that starts. Bernie
says, "All right, no problem. I'll take
the risk. I'll fund the investment
upfront personally to create a central
single television feed for each race
that Formula 1 quote unquote slashme
Bernie."
>> Yeah. What is Formula 1 at this point?
>> Yeah. What is Formula 1? So, we should
say Bernie loved to operate without
contracts. Here's his exact quote. I
carry out my business in a very unusual
way. I don't like contracts. I like
being able to look someone in the eye
and then shake them by the hand rather
than do it the American way with 92page
contracts that no one reads or
understands. If I say I'll do something,
I'll do it. If I say I won't, I won't.
>> Yeah.
>> And who owns these things? I don't know.
I'm making sure it happens. So Bernie
goes and sets up a new company, Formula
1 Promotions and Administration or FOPA,
>> not to be confused with FOA, FOCA, which
was the constructor's association that,
you know, just did that deal with the
FIA,
>> right? That Bernie is now de facto head
of, but doesn't have any legal ownership
of,
>> right? The first thing that he has Phopa
do is create this centrally produced TV
feed from England and then distribute it
out to all the various broadcasters all
across Europe.
>> He just keeps running this playbook over
and over again of, okay, cool. I'll
centralize something. I'll aggregate
something and now I have leverage to go
and do business with the rest of the
ecosystem.
>> Yep. And his plan has been like you
identified, I'm going to get all these
public broadcasters across Europe to
basically go develop the market for me,
>> right? They're making the next
negotiation much more favorable to me.
They're out there right now. Sure, we
didn't really exchange much money, but
they're out there building the brand,
getting people are excited, and then as
soon as that agreement period is up,
then I'll go to them and say, "Okay,
it's really expensive and I am the one
who you have to pay."
>> Yes. I'm going to be sitting in the
middle as the choke point for what will
now be a hugely in- demand television
product, which is exactly what happens.
Now Bernie also gets really lucky here
because in the intervening years the pay
TV ecosystem in Europe finally comes
online.
>> So one of the reasons why America was
farther ahead in developing the
television market is that cable and pay
TV had become a thing earlier in
America. And so there's just a lot more
biders for content out there in America.
When Bernie started this adventure, it
wasn't clear that the same thing was
going to happen in Europe, but it did.
>> Yeah. And there was one other element
that developed in all this, too. In
addition to these agreements that Bernie
was having everyone sign, race
organizers were required to surrender
income from trackside advertising and
corporate hospitality to Formula 1 owned
entities. So this now means that the
race organizer, the track business model
is really just ticket sales.
>> Yep. So as it's becoming clear that TV
rights are now going to be really
valuable, the original 1981 Concord
agreement term comes up and Bernie now
needs to go negotiate a new deal.
>> Oh. Because FOHA and the TV rights were
actually not a party to the previous
Concord agreement.
>> Right. Exactly. It didn't exist yet.
Bernie created it in the inter
TV rights a thing. We're pretty sure
they're going to be valuable going
forward. We deserve a cut. No teams, no
tracks, no races. We want in on this.
>> Yep.
>> So Bernie says, "Okay, okay." He starts
with, "Why don't we just divide it all
up a third? A third, a third. FOCA and
the teams, you'll get a third. FIA, you
guys can get a third. But then a third
really should officially go to FHOPA.
I'm the one that created this and we're
producing the broadcast. So after a
whole bunch of negotiation, it ends up
splitting out that the FIA gets 30%.
FOCA and the teams get 47%.
And FOA, Bernie's company, gets 23%.
>> FOHA is just a guy. You're just saying
and 23% of it goes to me, a thing I
fully own.
>> Yes, this company that I created. Bernie
is a master at playing everyone off
here. This split gets negotiated before
Bernie really ramps up running bidding
processes in each country for the TV
rights. So, he actually renews the
European Broadcasting Union deal for
another three-year term to sort of keep
growing the sport and not value maximize
just yet because he doesn't want a lot
of money to start going to the other
organizations.
>> So, that was the second Concord
agreement. When the third Concord
agreement comes up for negotiation in
1992, Bernie goes to the FIA and he's
like, "You guys, you're getting the TV
money, but you can't be happy because
it's really not that much, you know, and
there's a lot of complexity here. You're
a international organization.
What if I just make this easy for you?
I'll pay you a flat fee.
Rather than you taking 30%, I'll pay you
$5 million a year going up by 1 million
every year up to 9 million at the end of
this term in exchange for your
percentage of the TV rights. This will
be way easier for you. And the FIA is
like, great, that sounds like a great
deal. Let's do that.
So Bernie now has the 23% he originally
had plus another 30% that used to belong
to the FIA for which he has to pay 5 to9
million a year.
>> And you can actually imagine if you're
an international regulatory standards
body, the fact that a guaranteed payment
is being made available to you so you're
not taking risk anymore might actually
be great.
>> Of course, and this is the justification
that they all give to the press when the
deals are done. So deal gets done.
Bernie's now got 53% plus all of his
cuts that he's taking from the
constructor's association for his
services plus his team ownership etc
etc. Deal gets signed he goes out runs
auctions across Europe and really across
the globe with any TV provider who's
interested in showing F1.
All of a sudden, TV rights go from small
singledigit millions in aggregate to F1
to over 25 million a year just flowing
into FHA and Bernie from the TV rights.
>> Oh wow.
>> But call it 40 to 50 million a year. So
a big big step up.
>> Okay. So how do the teams feel about
this? I mean that suddenly there's this
guy that's getting halfish
the revenue from the broadcast of their
sport. That is the key question. You
would think that the other owners would
be pretty pissed and some of them were
to be fair. One of the other owners, Ken
Tyrell of Tyrell, which fun fact is
actually the forerunner of the Mercedes
team today,
>> publicly accuses Bernie of quote
stealing F1 from the teams. But that's
kind of a minority opinion. By and
large, they're all still pretty grateful
to Bernie at this point because turning
F1 into this major TV sport meant that
all of a sudden all of their individual
team sponsorship deals just got way,
way, way more valuable.
>> Ah,
that makes sense. Before F1 was
televised,
all that sponsors were getting when they
got their logos on the cars was just
exposure to whoever happened to show up
at uh any given track for any given
race. And really, it wasn't even the
totality of the fan base that showed up.
It really was only fans that were
sitting close enough or at the right
angles where they could actually read
the logos on the cars.
>> It's interesting because at this point
in time, the more valuable real estate
would have probably been the trackside
advertising, whereas today the trackside
advertising is not nearly as valuable as
the space on the car because the cameras
stay fixed on the cars and on the
drivers. That's the valuable space that
people are after. And unless you're
televising it, the cars are the thing in
motion whizzing by,
>> right? Yeah. There's no way you're going
to be able to read what's on an F1 car
when it's whizzing by live.
>> Right.
>> So, this is when sponsorship money and
in particular tobacco money really
starts funneling into the sport. In
aggregate until it finally gets banned
by the EU in 2006, tobacco company
advertising poured $4.5
billion
into team sponsorships in F1 over the
years. That is a lot of money. And that
was just one category. And in
particular, part of the reason why
tobacco is so interested in here is
there was sort of a loophole that as
there was all this pressure to ban
tobacco advertising on TV and on radio
and on billboards and in newspapers,
putting it on a car that happened to
show up in a TV broadcast. Oh, that was
a sponsorship of a team. It's sort of
this way that the tobacco companies got
to stay on TV and it was heavily
associated with a brand image that they
wanted to cultivate. It's glamorous.
There's speed. It's risk-taking. They
get to do these full takeovers of the
liveries of the cars. I mean, it is a
full screen ad. It's just not classified
as a TV advertisement. Okay. So,
finally, thanks to tobacco companies and
TV meteorites and Bernie, there's all
this money flowing into Formula 1 to
fund these ever increasingly expensive
operations. And of course, the question
then is what do they do with all this
money? You know, these teams want to
just go out and beat each other. And so
they're going to spend into an infinite
limit to attempt to do so.
>> Oh, yes. And of course, they come up
with some pretty clever ways to uh
invest slash burn that money and make
the cars go faster on the grid.
>> Yes. But first, listeners, now is a
great time to thank longtime friend of
the show, Service Now, the platform that
puts AI to work for people. And
listeners, we're doing something fun and
special today. One of the main ways that
we did research for this episode was to
go to the Las Vegas Grand Prix with
Service Now, and we spent a ton of time
with their CMO and EVP, Colin Fleming.
Colin also happens to be a former Red
Bull test driver. So, it was amazing to
hear a lot of research directly from him
and just grill him with questions all
weekend. We have him here with us today.
Hello, Colin.
>> Thanks for having me, guys. So, we
thought a fun thing to do this segment
would be to share one of the F1 tidbits
that you shared with us when we were in
the paddock club together. So, what is
one of the things that you think most
people don't know about the sport?
>> Everyone talks about the technology and
speed, but the underdisussed component
is the human side. An F1 driver is
operating at fighter pilotike cognitive
load for 90 minutes straight. 6G's under
pressure, which means their head weighs
like 80 pounds at that moment. Their
heart rate is 180 beats a minute or more
and they've lost 5% of their body weight
during the course of the race. They're
doing this making micro decisions of
thousands of times with no timeouts, no
commercial breaks, and I don't think
there's another sport like it.
>> We're talking a lot this episode about
the specific technologies that were
leaps forward in different F1 eras. What
do you think was the most significant
over the years?
>> For me, it was the hybrid introduction.
I think it was 2014. It moved the sport
from being about pure horsepower to
being about energy management. And as a
result, the drivers lives got way
busier. Now they're managing battery
deployment, harvest modes, engine maps,
and they're doing this at unreal speeds.
And Mercedes cracked it first. They won
eight straight championships.
>> Okay. Now, from the Service Now angle,
I'm very curious why you decided to uh
sponsor an F1 team in Aston Martin. What
is the business case?
>> Three things that are really critical
for us. Storytelling, hospitality, and
brand. It's a super complex sport and as
we know logistics uh technology
everywhere and that is the life that our
customers live every single day. So we
didn't just slap a logo on it. We deeply
embedded our technology into the
organization to help them really find
that onetenth of performance they're all
looking for. The hospitality gives us
the opportunity to tell that story and
the brand is truly a lead. We're
thrilled to be part of it.
>> Okay, last question while we have you.
What's the latest in the world of
Service Now?
>> Well, anybody that's deploying AI today
knows it's absolute chaos. Companies
don't know what's running, what's
working, what's not. And that's why
we've built the AI control tower. It
helps companies turn that chaos into
control, giving them visibility,
governance, orchestration, and to really
understand what value it's bringing
together. So, we think the answer is
ultimately this incredible probabilistic
intelligence with deterministic controls
and that orchestration layer from
Service Now. And in May, we're going to
show it all off at Knowledge.
>> We'll be there.
>> Amazing. We hope all of your listeners
will join us. Well, a huge thanks to
Colin for joining us today and to our
friends at Service Now. You can go to
serenow.com/acquired
to learn more. Okay, so we're in this
era now where team owners have a lot
more resources at their disposal and boy
are they deploying it? Ben, what are
some of the crazy things that they start
doing during this time? So, in 1968,
Colin Chapman from Lotus had become a
really big believer that the way that
his drivers could go faster in the turns
was applying more downforce so they'd
have better traction on the road. And
they put the first air foils or wings on
the car. And in ' 68, that was just
really small wings. They almost look
like early Formula 1, the cars that were
just these like long tubes, but with
like little hints of what Formula 1
would become on them. It's this kind of
amazing transitional period. We'll link
to it in the show notes.
>> And then don't they go to like big wings
before the FIA regulates those out of
existence? Right.
>> There is a lot of experimentation. Yeah.
That happens in this period. It's really
fun. In the email, we'll put a bunch of
pictures of crazy F1 cars that were
technically within regulation when they
were first tried before all these
tactics were made illegal. But it's
probably time to stop and do a little
physics lesson here. I never really
understood this. So, this is listeners
education for me. Lighter cars are
faster. So, why would you want to put a
spoiler on a car that pushes it into the
ground harder? You don't want a heavier
car. And so, you sort of have to
separate this idea of downforce pushing
down on the ground from just weight.
There are ways to get downforce, which
can be good that is different than a
heavy car.
>> Yeah. It's funny. Before doing this
episode and learning all this alongside
you, I always just sort of assume that
like at least road car manufacturers put
this stuff on cars to make them look
cool, not to actually do anything,
>> right? But you want downforce to make it
stick to the road better on turns. But
the issue, of course, is that with a big
spoiler, yeah, you're creating
downforce, but you're actually creating
a ton of drag also. So the car is facing
resistance to going forward as a
byproduct of what you're attempting to
really do is force the car down. So if
you focus too much on optimizing for
downforce on the turns, you end up
slowing yourself down in the
straightaways. So the takeaway from
lesson number one here is downforce
good, drag bad.
>> Yep. So let's flash forward 9 years from
that 1968 initial aerodynamics
experiment. So we're now here in the
late 1970s. Lotus is still working on
this issue. They were trying to figure
out a way to produce downforce that
doesn't produce a lot of drag. And what
followed is the stuff of F1 lore. You
will hear racing nerds talk about the
Lotus 78 and the Lotus 79 as if these
are like gilded vehicles,
>> mythical beasts.
>> Yes.
>> Yeah.
>> So, the first breakthrough is, well,
wait, what if we can turn the whole car
into a wing? I mean, rather than our
traditional shaped car with a wing
slapped on top, what if we made it
actually part of the body style itself?
So, the whole thing gets pushed down.
And when you look at the Lotus 78, it
really does look like one big wing. I
mean, Google it. We'll put it in the
email. It's really cool. The second
breakthrough is a fun one from the world
of fluid dynamics. Everyone listening is
probably familiar with how airplanes
generate lift. The wing is shaped in a
special way such that when the plane
moves forward, you generate high air
pressure underneath the wings, low air
pressure over the wings, and thus the
airplane is pushed up into the air.
Well, what if you did the opposite? That
is what the Lotus team did. They shaped
a car like an upside down airplane wing.
So, the bottom of the car had a special
skirt on it that shaped air flow to
speed up under the car, squeezing air
into a very small space since it's super
close to the road. as the air molecules
move along at high speed under the car,
which creates that low air pressure zone
and then carefully control the air with
a gradual UPS slope and a diffuser to
guide how the air comes out from
underneath the car in the back. The
effect this had was to create low air
pressure under the car, high air
pressure over the car, and essentially
suck the car onto the ground. And in
physics, this is called the venturi
effect. So the areas under the car are
called venturi tunnels.
>> Ah, that's why it is funny. When you and
I were at the Vegas Grand Prix and we
kept saying, "Oh my god, these are like
fighter jets on the ground." They
actually are like fighter jets on the
ground.
>> Yes, they really are like upside down
fighter jets. So did it work?
Absolutely. Mario Andredy upon driving
it said that it cornered as if it was
painted to the road and he won both the
drivers championship and Lotus won the
constructor's championship in 1978.
Interestingly, by the 1980s, it was
producing so much downforce that the
drivers could take these corners at
super fast speeds, and it actually
became a safety hazard, especially
because if the car would go up on a curb
or the skirt slipped in any way, the
cars were then going way faster than
they otherwise could have without that
sort of uh sucking to the ground, the
ground effect to cause the traction. So,
in 1983, these ground effects were
outlawed and regulations were updated to
say that you must have a flat bottomed
car.
>> Interesting.
>> Yes. But for fans of ground effects,
they would make their way back for the
2022 to 2025 regulations, which that's
what we saw in Vegas. David, it was
crazy cool to watch because I think 70%
of the downforce from those cars is
created by the ground effects, not from
the pushing down of the spoiler, but the
sucking of the car onto the track. And
so it was kicking up all that dirt,
especially during qualifying cuz it's
driving around on these Las Vegas roads
that just have sand and dirt and silt
that sort of builds up and creates these
just like huge clouds of dust in the air
from all the sucking. And then
qualifying in the rain was insane.
Seeing like all the rain water just
shooting up off of these cars.
>> Yeah. The rooster tails as they call it.
And I think it was 2 years before we
went in Las Vegas, one of the cars even
sucked up a drain cover that had been
welded shut and basically wrecked the
car. But these cars produce so much
downforce that if you drive over even a
welded shut manhole cover, junk, it
sucks it right up.
>> Wild. Yeah. So ground effects very very
powerful. There are a few other just
giant leaps forward that would happen in
areas other than aerodynamics also. So
engines over the years have gotten way
more fuel efficient with only 50% of
energy in an F1 engine lost to heat
compared to 70 or 80% in a road car
being lost to heat. So this obviously is
something that F1 teams care a lot about
because if it's more efficient, you can
carry less fuel, have a lighter car, go
faster. So huge, huge advantage. They've
also gotten a massive increase in
horsepower, tripling from 300 something
horsepower engines when we first started
in the ' 50s to a,000ish horsepower
coming out of these engines today.
>> Insane. In cars that are light enough
that you could basically pick them up, a
half to a third as heavy as like an
average road sports car.
>> The F1 cars were that light because of
all the carbon body work.
>> Yeah. So, a 1000 horsepower in something
that's basically light as a feather as
far as cars go.
>> And then, of course, there's
turbochargers, which are an insane
invention. This harnesses the unused
energy from the exhaust gases to spin a
turbine and then use that to compress
the air that is going into the engine,
which ultimately means then there's more
oxygen in each engine cycle. So you can
have a more powerful combustion every
single engine cycle and thus more power
again in the car.
>> Which actually raises a important point
too. It's not like any of these teams,
even the ones that were backed by actual
car manufacturers were doing this with
the goal of advancing technology for
consumer road cars. But as a byproduct,
a lot of this technology over the years
did make its way into the consumer
landscape. Yes. And it did become an
intentional strategy over time and it
provided a air cover for a lot of spend
especially for these constructors that
were also consumer car makers if they
could say, "Oh, this is R&D and stuff's
going to go into cars." And it did. I
mean, you had paddle shifters and carbon
>> or even just turbos. I mean, so many
cars, even like not sports cars are
turbos these days, and a lot of that
technology got perfected in F1.
>> Yeah. I think people sort of overstate
this when they say there's all this
technology that came from F1 cars, but I
think it's more like the technology was
sort of iterated and perfected or they
would explore new material science or
something in F1 cars that would
eventually go into road cars.
>> Yep.
>> So that's engines on top of
aerodynamics. Then there's this whole
third category where they really had a
breakthrough in electronics. So all the
cars we've been talking about at this
point were very very manual and analog.
And in the early '9s, the Williams team
comes along and realizes, oh, this
technology is finally good enough for us
to try to automate some of the systems
in the car in real time.
>> Let's add software, baby.
>> This is the early '9s. I mean, this is
pre- internet. So, they come up with
this whole crazy broad set of ideas and
remarkably they implement basically all
of them and they work very very well.
So, the systems are traction control,
anti-lock brakes, active suspension,
semi-automatic transmission. Speaking of
road relevance, David, and
transferability to consumer cars.
>> Yeah, totally.
>> All of these worked together, and the
car even automatically adjusted its ride
height, customized to each corner on
each racetrack. So, competitors saw this
and got so mad and accused Williams of
making a car that drove itself. Uh but
for a couple of years this was legal and
they won both drivers and constructors
championships in 1992 and 1993 with
Nigel Manel and Alan Prost. In fact, the
car was so dominant that Pro's old
teammate and rival from McLaren, the
great Ayton Senna, who we have not yet
talked about in this episode, the
three-time world champion, wanted to
jump ship from McLaren to join Williams.
And Pro was actually retiring after that
93 season. So, a spot did open up for
Senna to join Williams in '94. Uh, but
then the FIA made it illegal to do all
this software stuff,
>> change the rules as soon as he gets
there and says, "Hey, you can't have all
these electronic driving aids." I mean,
I know it makes the car really
desirable, but no, this is not the same
sport anymore because it actually
decreases the amount that the driver
matters so much that we aren't really
willing to go there. So Senna is then
left on a new team with a car that's
just on par or quite possibly behind the
quality of the whole rest of the grid
when they had to take out all these
electronic innovations. And sadly early
in that 1994 season, the racing world
would witness its most infamous and
fatal crash in that Williams car.
>> Yeah. which was obviously Senna's death
in 1994
which becomes this global moment. I
believe still to this day Santa's
funeral in Brazil is the largest
attended public funeral in history.
>> I think three million people showed up
in the streets.
>> That's right.
>> For his funeral.
>> It's this horrible tragedy. He had just
sort of gone from rising star to clearly
the best race car driver in the world.
Just this natural talent. There's a
beautiful documentary released in 2010
for anybody who's interested to go learn
about his life and this crash.
>> I mean, one, it shined this light on
just the sport in general in a way that
hadn't happened since the modern
television era began.
>> Yeah.
>> Two, it specifically shined a light on
how unsafe it still was.
>> Yeah. So it's interesting because by
this time the fatalities had really
dropped off. So we mentioned I'll just
go through the counts here by decade.
1950s there were 14. In the60s there was
another 14. In the 70s there were 12.
>> Yeah. You know more than one a season.
>> Yes. So then they start implementing a
bunch of obvious stuff. The FIA has to
inspect every track and make sure it is
complying to all the rules before every
race. You can't have straw bales
anymore.
>> That's right. The barriers used to be
straw bales. Yes. Now you need these
guardrails. They have to be double
reinforced. You need separation on the
pit walls. There was a lot of stuff
going on sort of near the pits that
drivers were going too fast or
accelerating too fast. Finally, you get
fireproof overalls in the 1970s. You get
fuel safety cells, mandatory seat belts,
multi-point harnesses. So big steps in
the 70s. Yeah, this is one of the
craziest things to me in doing the
research was for a long period of time,
F1 drivers actually refused to wear
their seat belts because they wanted to
get thrown out of the car so they didn't
catch fire after it crashed,
>> right?
>> Insane.
>> They didn't want to limit their options
in a dangerous situation. So, after all
that, then in the 1980s, you have four
deaths, a lot better than 14 or 12. And
in the 90s, the only two deaths were
this one weekend, Roland and Senna. And
so it did kind of come as a shock
because I think people felt like, oh,
we're through this era, things are a lot
safer, but obviously they still have a
long way to go. So what happened after
Santa's death from a safety perspective?
And what impact did it have? The biggest
one is they just slowed down the cars,
right? I mean, all this R&D and sticking
to the road and getting crazy traction
and taking high-speed turns, the faster
you go, the more dangerous it is. And
so, interestingly, F1 racing today is
not that much faster than it was in
1950. The top speed is like 40 mph
faster than the old top speed. I would
have thought, oh, all this R&D, these
cars are probably 2, three, four times
faster. No, they're not. And so right
after Senna's death, they limited the
aerodynamics of the cars. You couldn't
use as big of wings. You couldn't use as
big of diffusers. In 1998, a few years
later, they groove the tires to reduce
cornering speed. So they actually looked
a little bit more like the tires we use
on the roads instead of the flats or the
slicks that you see real race car tires.
There were also some structural things
they put into the cars. So deformable
crash structures, survival cells, front
impact testing, higher sides on the
cockpits, and they changed the tracks
too. A lot of corners were given larger
runoffs and upgraded barriers. So that
all did help. But in the 2010s, there
were also two fatalities. And so this is
when the really big noticeable change
happened.
>> The halo.
>> The halo. So in 2018, in response to the
2014 crashes, the FIA says enough is
enough. We are gonna mandate that every
car has this really, really rigid,
robust, heavy thing that you put right
on top of the driver. And there's a
giant bar directly in the center of the
driver's field of view. So, there's a
giant compromise here, but it has saved
at least three people's lives since then
because it can protect a driver even
when a car is upside down and skidding.
These innovations have made it so we
have had zero fatalities since 2014.
It's, I think, the longest stretch in F1
history without a fatal accident.
>> Yep. It certainly seems like this board
is a lot safer these days. Yeah, it's
still dicey, but over the last 70 years,
they've observed all the lowest hanging
fruit of ways that they can protect the
driver.
>> Yep. So, bring it back to the business
narrative here, one of the kind of great
ironies here of the obvious right
decision to focus on safety and slow the
cars down. Is it just further fuels this
sort of spending spiral amongst the
teams? Because the harder you make it to
go fast, the more they're going to be
incentivized to spend every last dollar
and look in every last little corner and
find every last little loophole to get
an advantage.
>> Yeah. I mean, when the sport first
started, there were giant gains to pick
up left and right, and you could sort of
do all sorts of crazy stuff. And we were
talking about all the different car
designs with spoilers that are up on
giant poles. And I mean, truly wacky
ideas. There was a six-w wheeled car at
one point, right? Cuz it wasn't in the
rules that you only had to have four
wheels. And over time, as they start
adding more and more guidelines for
safety and for all these other reasons,
the way to succeed in Formula 1 shifted
from making a more powerful engine or
figuring out the very best arrow to
figuring out how to exploit the rules.
>> Yeah. And do more and more exotic stuff.
>> Yes. what is left unclear in the rules
where I can see a little bit of daylight
between what they intended to write and
what they did write and what can I catch
that the other teams won't catch and how
do I sink $50 million of R&D into uh
achieving some speed outcome with that
>> it's really funny I hadn't thought about
this till now but actually the right
analogy is the semiconductor industry
and Moore's law it's like a different
set of rules it's like the rules of
physics instead of the rules of the FIA
but
>> as you progress like TSMC and ASML and
they got to spend incrementally more and
more capex and more R&D every year to
push the boundaries farther and farther
and all the lowh hanging fruit is gone
and they get more and more exotic with
lasers melting tin just in time, you
know, etc., etc.
>> Good point. Yeah, I had thought about
that way. Meanwhile,
while the teams are spending themselves
into unprofitable oblivion, Bernie,
starting in 1993, becomes the highest
paid corporate executive in Britain,
taking home in 1993
$44.5
million in cash, and that's only what's
reported to her majesty the crown in
that year, as we'll get into. He's also
getting older by this point in time.
He's in his late 60s. He's on his second
marriage. He has two young daughters
with his second wife, Slavica. And he
starts to think about estate planning
and maybe some liquidity for his family
and his estate. But in doing so, he just
about causes the whole thing to fall
apart. Because even though he was the
highest paid corporate executive in
Britain, that didn't necessarily mean
that he was running FHA and F1 like any
kind of professional organization. He
did everything himself and intentionally
didn't keep any records. He minimized
the number of contracts that he would
sign intentionally. He kind of operated
F1 like a sole proprietorship, shall we
say? The whole corporate operation was
run out of a building in London that was
also his house. Seriously, like the
bottom four floors of the building were
F1 offices and then he had the floors
above and supposedly he had all the
rooms in the offices bugged so he could
listen to what everybody was saying at
every point in time. And famously he
would kick everyone out at 6:00 p.m.
He'd be like, "All right, leave my house
now. It's time for y'all to go home."
Yeah.
>> Wow. This continued until Liberty takes
over in 2017. He had a few lawyers and
finance people to make it all function.
But there was no marketing department
for F1. There was no research or data
department. There was no sales
department besides Bernie. Well, there
weren't actually that many things to
sell. They weren't selling a lot of
sponsorship at the league level at that
time. That was pretty much all teams. I
guess TV rights you have to sell.
>> Exactly. like uh yes on the sponsorship
side, but TV rights, you know, they're
in 90 soon 100, 120, 130 countries, all
with different contracts and different
providers. Bernie's just out there doing
this more or less all by himself,
though, we should say he also had a
right-hand man and essentially number
two in the business. a former Formula 2
driver and also owner of another team in
the league, the March team, a man named
Max Mosley, who happened also to be a
lawyer. Very useful for Bernie's
activities. There's this great quote
that Bernie recalls saying to him when
they first start working together. Your
problem, Max, is you always want things
absolutely clear, and sometimes it's
better if things are not clear.
So he gets with the program and uh they
pretty quickly become two P's in a pod.
In 1993, that same year that Bernie
becomes the highest paid executive in
the UK, he kind of shadow arranges to
get Max installed as the new president
of the FIA. Meanwhile, he had already
somehow connived to get himself Bernie
already an official role at the FIA as
the vice president in charge of
promotional affairs. In addition to all
this, at one point along the way, he
also took over as the promoter of the
Belgian Grand Prix at Spa.
>> Oh, so he was paying a race fee to
himself.
>> Yes. So at various times, Bernie was
serving in a principal role in all of
the major F1 stakeholder categories.
Team owner, race promoter,
official FIA representative, and of
course CEO and owner of FHA and de facto
the league itself.
And I think at every point in time, he
was always in at least two, if not three
or four of those roles simultaneously.
>> Unbelievable.
>> He really takes the, you know, no
conflict, no interest phrase, to new
heights.
>> Absolutely unbelievable. There's a great
quote from Eddie Jordan, who is a
Formula 1 legend. Do you know this
quote?
>> Uh, no. No, no. He said that Bernie
Ecklestone was someone who sold Formula
1 four times, has never bought it back,
has never lost its control, and still
owns it. And do you know the most
important thing? He never effing owned
it in the first place.
>> Yes. So, let's tell that story about how
he sells it four times, never buys it
back, and still owns it and never owned
it in the first place. That is such a
great quote. I hadn't found that. I love
it. I love it. Yes. But listeners,
before we do that, now is a great time
to tell you about one of our favorite
companies, Verscell. And funny enough,
as we were preparing for this episode, I
was in the pit lane at the Las Vegas
Grand Prix, and I ran into none other
than Verscell founder and CEO, Guiermo
Roush.
>> Of course you did.
>> Which is very fitting since Verscell is
uh known for speed.
>> Yep. Yep. Yep.
>> Yes. They are known for lightning fast
performance and the insane iteration
velocity that they enable for
developers. So it's no surprise that
they are emerging as the ideal
production layer for AI agents.
>> Yeah, I mean gosh, all signs are
pointing to 2026 as the year that AI
moves into actual agents that do actual
work. But building an agent is the easy
part. Operating a whole fleet of agents
at scale, that's hard. and doing it with
governance, isolation, enforcement
really hard.
>> So that's where Verscell comes in.
They've already built the modern
platform for the web that is trusted by
companies from Notion to Door Dash to
Stripe. And that makes them uniquely
positioned for the agentic web because
they already power the plumbing
underneath many of the world's biggest
applications.
>> Yep. If you're building with AI right
now, you're almost certainly already
touching Versel's infrastructure. Their
AI gateway and sandbox are used by
everyone from one-person startups to the
biggest global enterprises. And their AI
SDK is the toolkit to build AI powered
products. And it's downloaded 7 million
times each week. They recently launched
Verscell agent, a suite of AI powered
developer tools that they are calling
self-driving infrastructure for
building, deploying, and operating
agents. It's the first step toward a
fully autonomous cloud operation.
Verscell is your one-stop shop for
everything you need to build for this AI
era. Agents, apps, sites, dashboards,
whatever. With Verscell, you can just
ship.
>> So, you can visit verscell.com/acquired
to get started. That's
veral.com/acquired
and just tell them that Ben and David
sent you.
>> Okay. So, Bernie's many sales and
monetization opportunities. Here in the
mid 90s, he starts exploring liquidity
options for himself. And in particular,
he wants to funnel that liquidity into a
new set of offshore vehicles to avoid
British estate taxes for his family
after he dies. And you know, this is
like a natural activity for somebody
approaching their 70th birthday. What
Bernie didn't foresee or anybody else is
>> he had another 25 years at least in him.
at least cuz he's still alive in 2026.
>> Yep. Now, also to be somewhat fair here,
protecting his estate from the heavy
British inheritance taxes is a
legitimate concern because otherwise
there would be no way that his family
could keep control of F1 after his
death. It would have to be broken up and
sold just purely to fund the estate
taxes.
So if you actually are a team, this is
starting to become kind of an
existential risk of what if Bernie dies
suddenly and then they have to sell F1
off into different parts with different
owners.
>> And you say, you know, if you're a team
owner, it's not just if you're a team
owner. If you're a team owner or a race
promoter, you want to play on here. So
it just so happens here in the mid to
late 90s that we're in the height of the
dot era.
>> Wait, that plays into this?
>> Oh, yeah. So, what's the natural thing
to do? Bernie's gonna IPO
F1.
>> Oh, I've totally missed this.
>> Oh, yeah. Oh, there is so much delicious
chaos that gets unleashed here. By this
point in time, Bernie's various
companies, and there are even many more
than we have talked about on this
episode, just for simplicity.
Collectively, they're earning about 250
million British pounds a year in
revenue. and they have 50% plus EBITD
dot margins. And remember this is at a
time when the British pound is worth
call it 60 to 70% more than the US
dollar. This is a very IPOable business
if it were a you know regular business.
>> Yes. Nonetheless, times are so crazy
that Bernie hatches a plan with his
bankers at Solomon Brothers to
consolidate all the various F1 companies
that he owns into a single holding
company called Sleek Holdings, SLEC
Holdings. And he's going to transfer his
ownership of that new company to his
then second wife, Slavica, for tax
reasons. So SLC was short for Slavica
Eckleston
>> and float it in a duallisted IPO in the
US and England with an anticipated
valuation of around $4 billion.
H we should also note here too, we've
being a a little glib in this episode.
In 2023, Bernie ultimately pleaded
guilty to tax fraud as a result of all
the machinations we're about to talk
about and had to pay a 653 million pound
payment to the crown in back taxes and
fines. And he also received a I think
17-month jail sentence which was then
suspended probably in large part to his
advanced age.
>> Crazy. All of this lurking in the
background may have been part of the
reason that famously he turned down
several offers of knighthood throughout
his life.
>> Yeah.
>> Although you'd think it would actually
bode better for you if you're a knight
going into some lawsuit with the
government over owing the government
money.
>> Good point. Yeah. Does the crown sue one
of their own? I don't know.
>> Anyway, as he starts formulating all
these plans with Solomon Brothers,
they're like, "Well, I see your revenue.
I see your EBITDA.
>> And what were those again?
>> 250 million British pounds of revenue
and call it uh 50 plus percent margins
on that.
>> Good business.
>> Yeah, great business. What they don't
see is any sort of formal legal control
or document that he has from anybody
giving him the actual rights to a lot of
this. you know, he's got the actual
rights to the TV stuff, but the promoter
fee stuff, the transportation,
uh, we haven't even mentioned the
Paddock Club that gets set up along the
way here, there's a lot of money flowing
through that. And to be clear, these are
all income streams to Bernie. I mean, so
of course we've talked about the meteor
rights, but what a race promoter does is
if F1 is thinking about going to a
racetrack, the person who owns the
racetrack or a company affiliated with
the racetrack or a government affiliated
with the racetrack pays a giant amount
of money to Bernie for the privilege of
having a race there. That's a promoter
fee.
>> Yep. So conveniently, right at this same
time as they're doing IPO preparations,
it comes time to negotiate the fourth
conquered agreement with the teams and
the FIA.
In this new agreement, Bernie swaps in a
new entity called Formula One
Constructors Association
Administration Limited, a new company
owned by Bernie Fa,
for the original FOA,
>> so that he can now legally have all the
rights to everything he's doing. And
remember who the new president of FIA is
that just got installed.
>> Max Mosley.
>> Yeah.
>> So he's just gonna rubber stamp it,
>> of course.
>> Or that's at least the belief.
>> Yeah. Well, it passes. Let's just say
that the path is now paved to IPO.
Except there's one snag that comes up.
News of the plans as well as Bernie's
recent sort of consolidation of legal
power gets leaked to the press. And this
causes the European Union antirust
investigators
to start poking around.
>> You don't say.
>> Bernie is doing so much self-deing here
that there's no way he's going to
survive an investigation.
>> So Bernie shelves the IPO idea and also
resigns from his official role as a vice
president at the FIA. And the
combination of those two things is
enough to at least get the EU off his
back for the moment. But he needs
another plan for getting liquidity. So
he switches banks to Morgan Stanley and
convinces them that instead of IPOing,
they should issue debt on F1 and use the
proceeds from the debt to pay himself
and his new offshore entities a special
$1.4 billion dividend.
>> What? secured by the future TV right
streams by the revenue streams from the
future TV rights.
>> This deal actually happens. It's called
the burning bonds.
>> It is always something you should be a
little bit worried about if a company is
raising a giant amount of debt
principally to pay out its primary
shareholder a special dividend.
>> Yes. Especially if it's Bernie.
>> Why would you buy that debt?
>> That's a really good question. The
offering, I believe, was intended to
be$2 billion dollars. Ah,
>> but there was not enough demand and that
Morgan Stanley could only rustle up 1.4
billion worth of money that was willing
to do this deal.
>> Either way, the deal happens on a
Friday. All gets done. Debts issued.
Bernie gets his dividend. Money gets
transferred to the offshore entities. On
the following Monday, Bernie calls up
his bankers and says, "Oh, there was
something else that I didn't tell you.
I'm having triple bypass heart surgery
today."
>> Today. So, they just did the debt deal,
just issued the special dividend, took
$1.4 billion out. Three days later,
Bernie is having triple bypass heart
surgery. The entire future success of
this thing is heavily dependent on
Bernie being in the seat.
>> Yes. Fortunately for him and everybody
else, he survives the surgery, gives a
quote to the press from the hospital
room, I have disappointed so many
people,
which uh later one of his principal
bankers would recall her response being,
"If you make it out alive, I'm gonna
come kill you myself."
Oh man. Well, Bernie survives. Later
that year, we're in 1989 now. His wife
Slavica, i.e. really Bernie starts
selling off equity stakes in select
holdings to various private equity firms
including cannot make this up in
February of 2000 they sell a 37% stake
in F1 to Helman and Freriedman the giant
private equity firm based in San
Francisco H&F then goes and buys out
some of the other minority owners ers
that Slavica/Bernie had been selling
stakes to and Helman and Freeman
collectively gets a 50% ownership stake
in F1 and then they go negotiate with
Slavica and Bernie an option to buy
another 25% from them for 600 million
pounds and gain 75% majority ownership
of F1. So they get the option, the
option's papered
one month later in March of 2000.
>> This was in March of 2000, right when
the dot crash happened.
>> The.com crash is about to happen, but it
gets crazier before the bubble pressur.
>> Really?
>> In March, H&F gets an unsolicited
over-the-top bid from a German new media
company called EM.tv. TV
to buy their entire stake in selectf
immediately right away. This is the
height of dot craziness right before the
crash. So this German company em.tv,
they had just previously bought the Jim
Henson company in the US, which of
course makes the Muppets. and they were
just trying to roll up all of these
media properties and they were going to
bring them into the digital era or
something some sort of do fever dream.
H&F hits the bid. They sell out.
>> So, how long did H&F own Formula 1?
>> One month.
>> H&F owns Formula 1 for one month. They
make an immediate 241 million pound
profit in one month. on how much
invested?
>> 1.1 1.2 billion invested.
>> Oh my god.
>> So, you know, a 20% return, but like
>> in a month
>> I got more. So, 50% of F1 is now in the
hands of em.tv.
They want to exercise the 25% option
that H&F had negotiated, but they don't
have any more cash. They blew it all on
the first transaction.
>> And the Muppets.
>> The Muppets.
So, em.tv
goes out and does another 1.6 billion
euro debt deal to raise the money. So,
they take 600 million from JP Morgan and
Lehman Brothers and they take a billion
from a local German bank called Bayern
LB. They use this debt. They exercise
the option. They now own 75% of F1 and
Bernie and Slavica hold the last 25%.
>> Wow.
>> And then the bubble burst
>> and Wow. So all that was done like in
days, weeks,
>> like right up to the end times. The
music is ending as this is all
happening. Bernie, meanwhile, is just
getting tons of money into his bank
accounts.
>> The bubble bursts. EMTV
misses their interest payments.
Shocking. Shocking.
>> Another German media mogul named Leo
Kersh comes in and saves the company.
His company, Kersh Media, takes over
EMTV. They now assume F1 ownership. 18
months later, they go bankrupt.
>> So 2002, the net result of which is that
ownership of the 75% stake in F1
transfers to the debt holders,
>> which is who?
>> Bayer and LB. the German bank, JP
Morgan, and Lehman Brothers.
With Bernie and Slavica still owning the
25% minority share.
>> Oh my god.
>> Crazy.
>> Okay, so it all comes to a head in 2004
when the banks are super frustrated
because Bernie's still running the thing
as he always did, paying himself
everything. The banks keep trying to
tell Bernie what to do. They're like
issuing him directions as if he's their
employee. and Bernie just keeps ignoring
them. So, the bank consortion sues
Bernie for control of the sport.
The judge rules in favor of the banks.
However, Bernie addresses the media
after the court proceedings and says
that the verdict would mean quote
nothing at all and he's planning to
continue business as usual
because he's got an ace up his sleeve.
separately. He has been negotiating with
CVC Capital Partners, the large European
private equity firm. The deal gets done
with CVC. They buy out the banks. They
also buy out Bernie and Slavic's 25%.
So, more money going to Bernie now here.
>> Whoa. But Bernie will remain CEO.
>> He's just an employee. He's hired by CBC
to continue being Bernie. and he gets
the opportunity to use some of his
proceeds to invest with CVC alongside
them in the deal.
>> Amazing.
>> All told, CVC
and Bernie for his portion, spend about
$2 billion acquiring 100% ownership.
They finance 1.1 billion of it with
another set of debt. So, they put 900
million of cash equity
>> into the deal.
compared to I believe over three billion
that Bernie and his trust had pulled out
of the company through all the debt and
equity machinations that we discussed
earlier.
>> Unbelievable.
>> Oh my goodness.
>> This is important to know. The
CBC/Bernie
buyin to this new F1 entity is about 900
million of equity.
>> Yes.
>> $2 billion total purchase price
including the debt. Bernie resumes his
job with renewed vigor now that he is
newly incentivized to uh grow revenue
and profits again. So the first thing
that he does after CBC cleans up the
ownership is he kind of goes right back
to his original bag of tricks which is
extracting more money from race
promoters. So by this point in time,
2005ish,
there are basically three types of Grand
Prix races. You have the prestigious
historic ones like Monaco and Monza and
Silverstone. They're not going anywhere.
>> The European heritage tracks, if you
will.
>> Exactly. They don't pay nearly as much
in race fees to F1, but they're sort of
there to build and maintain the brand.
>> Yep. Then you have a new set of races
like Bahrain and China that had just
come on,
>> the flyaway races.
>> They are paying huge fees to F1 in order
to have their races on the calendar.
>> We're talking 2 to 3x.
>> Yes. 30 40 50 million a yearish
>> and today even into the 60 millions.
>> Yes. The problem opportunity at this
point in time is you had a whole bunch
of races in the middle. Canada,
Australia, Spain, Belgium, the second
race in Germany that wasn't the Nurburg
Ring, the second race in Italy that
wasn't Monza, etc., etc., etc. Those
other races actually made up most of the
calendar, but they neither brought in a
lot of revenue, nor were they any sort
of strategic value. Like, nobody got
excited,
>> right? They weren't an expansion
opportunity for the sport. They weren't
a way to find new audience.
>> Yep. So Bernie goes out and he courts
Abu Dhabi, Singapore, and India to come
in and displace some of those middle
races and be new Grand Pris. And just
like Bahrain and China, these are big
money deals. So India is 40 million a
year just in race fees to F1. Abu Dhabi
is the biggest. They commit to a billion
dollar total F1 investment over the
coming years, including constructing a
whole new track from scratch in the
desert outside the city. So Bernie's on
a roll with these new races. So then in
the early 2010s, Bernie lands the big
one, Russia. He'd been trying to get a
Russian Grand Prix for a long time.
Russia had just won the 2014 Winter
Olympic bid for Sochi. Yep. And put $50
billion dollars into the ground in
infrastructure at Sochi for the
Olympics. Bernie in F1 goes and
convinces them that the best way to sort
of amortize the cost of this investment
in Sochi is to put a race there after
the Olympics. Probably not wrong.
Totally not wrong. So they sign a deal
with Russia and of course it's a deal
with the state. You know, anytime you're
negotiating with Russia, you're
negotiating with the state.
>> Increasingly, a lot of these flyaway
races are.
>> Yes. This is not unique to Russia here.
>> It's not a local entrepreneur race
promoter with a racetrack. These are
sovereign deals.
>> Yes. to construct a new $270 million F1
track around the Olympic Park and pay F1
$50 million a year for seven years to
host the race. There's an amazing Bernie
and Putin story.
As they're in final negotiations for the
deal, the Russian contingent asks Bernie
to fly over to Sochi and sit down with
Putin to finalize the deal.
To which Bernie responds, "Do I look
stupid? If they think I'm going to go
negotiate this contract with Putin, no
way. If they want me to go, they can
send back the contract first." Signed,
which they do.
And then Bernie goes to Sochi and sits
down with Putin and do a press
conference and announce the whole thing.
>> Wow.
>> I guess that's how you negotiate with
Putin is you you don't negotiate with
Putin. So ultimately the Russian Grand
Prix would get canned early in 2022
after Russia invaded Ukraine.
>> I was going to say it's not on the
calendar I saw.
>> No. No. Bernie would get asked on a
British morning TV show after the
Ukraine invasion what he thinks about
all this and he famously says that Putin
is a quote first class person and that
he Bernie would take a bullet for him.
>> Wow. Okay.
>> Yeah. Okay. I did hear from some folks
that I talked to and I'd always ask the
question, "What was it like working with
Bernie?" overwhelmingly people said
delightful.
>> I could believe that
>> that like when all the dust settled like
the term you kind of look at the terms
and go oh whoa there's actually not much
here for me.
>> Yeah.
>> But just delightful to work with.
>> He's a very loyal partner.
>> Yeah. So anyway, that's the racetrack
side of things under the reinvigorated
Bernie and CVC. The other big piece, of
course, is the team relations side of
things. We previewed this earlier, but
at this point, the whole stick of, "Hey,
I'm getting rich, but you're getting
rich, too," has way worn out its
welcome. M
>> there's also the fact too that now it's
not just Bernie getting rich, it's the
private equity firm that's also getting
rich on the backs of the teams and all
the investments that they're making into
the cars and R&D. And by this era in the
kind of mid late 2000s, it's truly
gotten out of control. The top teams are
spending like4 to500 million a year on
their cars. And the race calendar is
insane because you know it started in
the 50s60s of hey we'll go wherever we
can get enough teams to race and then it
turned into we'll go wherever anybody
will write a $40 million or larger
check.
>> Let's put this circus on a plane to
Russia in China.
>> And now the like by this point in
history we're talking about here the mid
late 2000s the broadcast calendar makes
no sense. You've only optimized for who
will pay us the biggest race promotion
fees. These races are being run at all
hours of the day and night.
>> Yes.
>> So, team relations are pretty bad. And
then 2008 hits. The biggest teams with
the biggest budgets, yes, they're
spending themselves way into the red,
but at least they were sort of
backstopped by actual consumer car
manufacturers that own them and were
investing into them for all sorts of,
you know, strategic or R&D or brand
marketing purposes. So, you know, you
had Honda in the sport, Toyota, BMW,
obviously Ferrari,
>> Renault.
>> Yeah. As we hit 2008 in the financial
crisis, the consumer car businesses for
all of these guys except Ferrari just
fall off the cliff. So, all of a sudden,
it becomes no longer tenable either
financially or just public perception
wise for Honda or BMW, etc. to keep
operating these money sinkhole F1 teams.
>> Yep.
>> So, as they get into 2008, Bernie, CBC,
and the FIA all team up and they float a
solution, a lifeline to the teams. We
are going to help you guys institute a
cost cap on manufacturing
and we'll help you design it. Let's get
it approved by all the teams. This will
save you. Basically, what they're
proposing is the F1 equivalent of a
salary cap in other sports like the NFL
or the NBA, except instead of on the
players, the salary cap is going to be
on the investments into the cars.
>> Yes. And there are some teams that are a
fan of this. And there are other teams
who hate this more than anything they
could possibly imagine.
>> Yes. Specifically Ferrari and McLaren.
Ferrari would like nothing more than to
lose half a billion dollars a year
making their F1 cars as long as they get
to win. They do not care. It pays back
infinitely in brand marketing if they
are just a winning F1 team for their
particular line of business.
>> You know what car manufacturer is
basically unaffected by a global
financial recession? Ferrari.
>> Yes.
their customers are staying on the wait
list no matter what the financial
climate is out there. So Ferrari and
McLaren has a lot of the same dynamics.
They threaten to pull out of the sport
and ultimately they bully all the other
teams into joining them in opposition to
the cost cap. There's also all of this
pent up bad will against Bernie, all
these deals that have happened, CBC, the
FIA, etc. In 2009,
eight of the 10 teams threatened to pull
out of the sport and start a rival
breakaway league called FOD, the Formula
One Teams Association.
>> Yeah. and they announced that they're
doing it and they're creating their own
series starting in 2010.
>> Yeah. So, the Formula 1 Teams
Association or FOD was really two things
in one. One, it's can we band together
as a team to negotiate as one to get
leverage in whatever we're negotiating
over. And in this instance, it's we
don't want a cost cap. The other thing
is it is a legitimate breakaway series.
>> Y
>> which it would be a really hard thing to
start. I mean to go figure out how to
sign all these new deals with the best
tracks in the world and media rights
deals. There's a lot of value in what
Bernie and the series are actually
doing.
>> Y so it works. The cost caps didn't
happen. They did impose a 10-year freeze
on engine development. And so in the
short term, this is kind of how these
negotiations go. The teams got what they
wanted without actually having to leave
by having a credible threat to leave.
>> Yep. And specifically
what they got was Max Mosley's
resignation from the FIA or at least
agreement not to stand for reelection.
>> It's hard for them to actually link arms
for too long because kind of two
reasons. One, Bernie and Max could offer
different things to different teams to
get them to individually cave. So, like
they can go to the Braun team, and we'll
talk about the Braun team in a minute,
but there was this shoestring budget
team, scrappy upstart. Bernie had been
withholding their payments from the
previous year when they had raced as
Honda because Bernie's opinion was,
"Well, you're not the same team, so you
don't deserve your payout." And so,
>> save it.
>> Braun really needs the cash. So, it's
very easy to go and get them to
capitulate when you owe them a few
million bucks. And you're going to wire
the money immediately as long as they
break ranks with the other team. It's a
great way to bust a strike. But the
biggest thing is it's just this kind of
misaligned incentives where all these
constructors actually have very
different reasons for racing and
different incentives and so it's hard
for them to be unified on anything given
the wildly different incentive set.
>> Yep. So, I don't know if you knew this,
David, I talked to Zack Brown, the CEO
of McLaren Racing to prep for this
episode, and I specifically asked him
why teams don't form a breakaway series
now. And we'll talk about the economics
of what the business looks like today.
And he had a great answer. So, he said,
"Prior to Liberty's acquisition of F1,
there had been many discussions and even
attempts at a breakaway series. Of
course, the teams would unite around the
sport themselves, but it always fell
down when the teams had to discuss how
to share the pie. And you know, it's one
of these things where Ferrari is gonna
say, "We're entitled to this and our
heritage for the sport." And McLaren and
Mercedes, they're gonna say, "Oh, we're
really good, so we deserve more." So,
yeah, they just never would agree on how
to divide up the pie.
>> Yeah. The net of this is that team and
league relations in F1 are at a all-time
low.
>> Yes.
>> Here at the end of the 2000s.
>> Yeah. And we didn't even talk about, if
you're a fan of F1 during this time
period, you know about uh Spygate and
CrashGate. both of these uh McLaren
magically wound up with a giant binder
full of the complete specification of
Ferrari's car for that year and there
was this all giant hullaloo and case
court hearings and everything about the
these stolen documents and did they use
them to win? Uh at the same time you
have crashgate.
>> Yeah, this is bad. where it ended up
looking pretty conclusive that a team
intentionally had one of their drivers
crash in order to get a safety car to
come out which would advantage their
other driver to do better in that race
putting one of their drivers life at
risk.
>> Not just one of their drivers, like
other drivers, too could be involved in
the crash. Yeah. and and they're
covering it up and they're
>> these are major sports integrity issues
>> public trust is at an all-time low.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, ironically,
miraculously,
and certainly despite all of Bernie's
best efforts to the contrary, pretty
much this whole situation
gets fixed
by two new teams
that enter Formula 1 who nobody saw
coming.
One of which was a auto manufacturer and
uh dark horse re-entrant into the sport.
>> Yep.
>> The other was a Well, I was going to say
energy drink manufacturer, but I don't
think we can say manufacturer because
they don't actually make the drink.
>> An energy drink company.
>> An energy drink marketing company named
Red Bull. But before we tell their
stories, now is a great time to talk
about one of our favorite companies,
Stats Egg.
>> Yes, longtime acquired partner. There is
a reason why the best product teams at
companies like OpenAI and Notion,
Atlassian, Figma, Rippling, Brex, and
more rely on Statzig. Whether they are
iterating on their core product features
or shipping AI powered experiences at
scale.
>> Yep. In the crazy speed of today's AI
world, shipping fast is just table
stakes. Now, it's basically trivial to
build and deploy your app constantly.
The real advantage is how quickly you
learn what changes actually created
value for customers and how fast you can
use that signal to guide what you ship
next. Whether it's a feature tweak, a
pricing change, a performance
improvement, or an AI update like a
model change or prompt adjustment,
they're not relying on instinct. They're
measuring what actually moved
engagement, retention, and ultimately
revenue. And as more teams build with
AI, that learning loop becomes even more
important. Building with LLMs introduces
non-determinism into your product
experience. The same input doesn't
always produce the same output, and
behavior can shift in subtle ways in
real world use. So doing offline evals
will give you part of the picture, but
you can really only understand the
impact once your product is live with
real users. And then you can measure how
their behavior actually changes. It's
very different than the way that you
would ship features in a pre-ai world
where you knew exactly what the software
was going to do in production.
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> So this is where statig comes in. It
brings experimentation, feature flags,
and product analytics into one unified
system so teams can ship safely, test
rigorously, and directly link what they
changed to how users actually behaved.
The result is a tighter feedback loop
and learning that compounds over time.
So you don't just ship more, you ship
better.
>> So if you want to make learning your
competitive advantage, whether you're
building new AI experiences or just
evolving your existing core product, go
to statsig.com/acquired
to get started.
>> All right. So David, uh, you mentioned
an energy drink company.
>> Yes. So let's start with Red Bull. The
Red Bull company story itself like
absolutely deserves its own acquired
episode someday because it is truly
insane. So briefly, Dietrich Matitz was
an Austrian
toothpaste salesman for Unilever and PNG
who goes on a business trip to Thailand
in 1984,
decides to radically change his life and
brings back a local Thai energy tonic to
start bottling and selling or or again I
can't even really say that because he
outsources
manufacturing. starting bottling and
selling it and turns it all into a
company that now does over $10 billion a
year in annual sales. Like astonishing.
The key pillar of what Red Bull the
company actually does
is of course marketing. And one of the
main pillars of its marketing strategy
has always been extreme sports. Red
Bull, their entire business model is,
"Yeah, we sell these drinks, but really
you're buying the drinks to associate
with a lifestyle, and we need to uh
educate you about the lifestyle that you
are uh, you know, associating yourself
with."
>> So, in 1989, like I mean, actually five
years, pretty quickly after Dietrich
starts the company, Red Bull sponsors
its first F1 driver. And then they
steadily grow their investment in the
sport until ultimately they become the
title sponsor of the Saur team in 1995.
>> Is that the team that's now Audi?
>> Yes.
>> Saur steak.
>> Sour steak. Yep. Yep. Yep. Yep. This is
where Red Bull starts.
>> Huh. The Red Bull entrance into F1
was so perfectly timed because this is
right as the EU regulation is coming
online, forcing tobacco finally out of
the sport.
>> And so the great irony is that it's
actually like an energy drink company
that replaces the the cigarettes.
There's a great quote that Josh and
Jonathan have in the formula. Two
decades after Marborl execs looked at F1
drivers and saw the heirs to the
American cowboy, Matishitz recognized
them for what they really were.
Overcaffeinated adrenaline junkies with
scant regard for their personal safety.
It was a match made in marketing heaven.
>> Perfect.
>> Perfect. So Red Bull totally breaks the
mold of what an F1 sponsor should be
doing. Previously, the sponsors were all
leaning into like the prestige aspect of
the sport, you know, the the the luxury,
the aristocraticness of it, you know,
all the Monaco stuff, the oil companies,
the watch companies, none of these
sponsors are rocking the boat, right?
And importantly,
just like F1 and Bernie itself, none of
these sponsors except maybe the
cigarette companies are interested in
younger audiences. Bernie has a great
quote about this when he's asked about
the challenges F1 faces of its aging
demographic. He says that younger
audiences are not a priority because
they quote don't buy Rolexes.
>> Yet
>> yet that is the key thing Bernie yet.
Yet
>> y
>> anyway Red Bull though of course is the
opposite of this. They are all about
young people the extreme lifestyle. They
don't just sponsor F1. They sponsor all
these extreme
sports like jumping out of planes in the
stratosphere, you know,
>> balloons.
>> Yeah, they are uh unique among the F1
sponsor set. The problem though for Red
Bull is that Saur isn't very good.
So there's another great quote from
Mattis in in the formula. If an
insurance company sponsors a team and
that team loses, people don't change
their insurance company. But when the
Red Bulls lose, people get a new drink.
>> Yeah.
>> In 2004,
Red Bull dumps Saur and makes the
radical decision that rather than
sponsoring another team, they are going
to directly get into the business. and
Matt Shitz and Red Bull buy the failing
Jaguar racing team which was at this
point in time owned by Ford because Ford
had acquired Jaguar and with it came the
F1 racing team. Jaguar was going through
all sorts of trouble as was Ford during
the financial crisis and the leadup to
it. Things are so bad for the team that
Ford is willing to sell the whole team
to Red Bull for one British pound.
>> Really? I didn't realize that.
>> Yep. The purchase price that Red Bull
paid was one British pound to establish
Red Bull Racing.
>> Now, the problem is they still got to
make the team good. But
>> can we talk about the like amazing full
circle moment of this year now that Ford
is
>> Yes. the partnering with Red Bull on
their power units.
>> Yes. Yes. It's so full circle. It's
amazing.
>> Also, Ford actually did make engines for
F1 for a long time. So, it's interesting
that like their exit from the sport was
they were no longer an engine
manufacturer. Then they had this weird
team with Jaguar. They divested that and
then they're dormant in the sport for 20
years. Yeah. Back to Red Bull taking
over. Yes. They need to make the team
good. Obviously, that's not going to
happen overnight, but they start, you
know, putting steps in place. What they
can do now that they actually own a team
instead of just being a title sponsor
is they can act however they want within
the paddic. So when Red Bull rolls up to
the paddic the next year in 2005, which
remember is the first year of CBC's
ownership and the new Bernie regime,
they bring, no joke, a mobile nightclub
named the energy station as their team
paddock facility to all the Grand Prix
around the world. And they have a
radical open door policy. So previously
the paddock was like the you know sacred
place corporate sponsors and high
rollers could spend for paddock club
access was very limited. Red Bull rolls
in and we're like the door is open all
the time. Anybody who is in the paddic
can come in to our energy station. Uh
you could be from any other team, you
could be any other sponsor, you could be
a guest. Just come on in and party with
us. So they have DJs at all hours. Uh
they have uh a a team of girls, the the
Red Bull Formula Una's team of you know
hostesses
who are there. They have a swimming pool
on the roof.
>> Do you know what they did in Monaco?
>> I read about this but I can't remember.
>> They there's not room for the Red Bull
energy station because it's Monaco and
there's not room for anything. Right.
And so they constructed a temporary
building that they put on pontoons and
they have it out in the harbor.
>> Amazing. Amazing. Yeah. They're just
like giant middle finger to the whole
establishment.
>> Yes.
>> Uh there's alcohol everywhere. Drinks
are flowing. And of course there is Red
Bull free for I mean it's genius. It's
absolutely genius. So, all of this is
masterminded by Dietrich and the young
team principal that he hires takes a
chance on to run the team. Christian
her.
>> Yep.
>> Who uh you know, if you watch Drive to
Survive, uh you probably know all about
Christian her.
>> Yes.
>> The other team owners and principles and
Bernie hates this. Like hate it. They
hate it so much. You know, they're
trying to control everything. This is a
serious sport. This is a serious
enterprise. And here's Red Bull just
partying.
>> And Red Bull got much better as a racing
team. But the essence of the strategy is
basically still the same. They generate
zero profit despite being one of the
best teams and the highest revenue teams
or near zero profit, very thin to create
the biggest marketing spectacle that
they can to sell energy drinks. It's a
just a super different business model
than anyone else in the
>> It's almost like uh like Amazon and
streaming, you know, like Prime Video,
which we'll talk about later. Like the
business model is not the streaming,
it's
>> the retailer.
>> Anyway, obviously all the other team
owners hate it, but the drivers and the
staffs love it. You know, these are all
young people mostly who are driving the
cars, working on the engineering as
mechanics, etc. All of a sudden, there's
like a 247 party following them around
the world. Like, hell yeah.
>> Y
>> So, McLaren goes so far, they even
forbid all members of their team from
entering the energy station. Like, it's
like a fireable offense if you're
caught.
>> No fun. And honestly, like you're gonna
go have drinks, you're probably gonna
share team secrets. It's probably a good
policy.
>> Exactly. Exactly. So, one night, back to
Christian her and the strategy of like,
how do we actually start building a
winning team here? He clandestinely
invites McLaren's
legendary technical director over to the
energy station for a chat late at night
against rules. And that technical
director just happened to be a man named
Adrien Newi, the single most legendary
>> car designer probably in history.
>> The way people talk about Adrien Newui
is basically the same way that they talk
about Kelly Johnson from Skunk Works
from our Loheed Martin episode. And I've
I've heard the comment from more than
one person. It's like he can see air.
Yes, he is a savant of aerodynamic
design
>> and Adrien's book is great talking about
sort of his career in F1 and what he's
learned. Uh he still draws by hand.
>> Yeah. Yeah. In the age of CAD and AI and
everything.
>> He just sort of like envisions
physical forms of cars, how air will
flow around them and then draws with a
pencil.
>> Yep.
So her and Dietrich
lure Newi into joining Red Bull. And
this is how they build a winning team.
It takes a couple years to ramp, but
starting in 2010, so what's that? Five
seasons after they enter the league, uh,
Red Bull starts a run of four
consecutive drivers and constructor's
titles
>> from 2010 to 2013. and importantly for
the product on the field. Up until this
point,
the racing had gotten pretty boring
because Ferrari had been on this huge
run where Michael Schumacher was just
dominating the sport and like blowing
away all competition.
>> Well, I mean, there were some years
where it really came down to the wire or
didn't go shoe marker's way. But if you
were an F1 fan in the '9s and early
2000s, it is totally fair to say there
was Schumacher and then there was
everyone else.
>> Yeah. And that had started to fade, as
we'll get into in a minute.
>> And was this Sebastian Viddlele in 2010
that kicked off the Red Bull run?
>> Yep. This starts a new dynasty within F1
of an energy drink company.
>> I know. And it's so fun watching. I
mean, it's they they are truly a central
figure of the drive to survive
narrative. Uh, starting with Sebastian
all the way through, you know, Max is
arguably the best driver in the sport
today. And so, it's so fascinating that
he's on an energy drink team,
>> right? The most insane thing about Red
Bull, I think, is
I used to think they were like a
sponsor, like, oh, this energy drink
company uses F1 for marketing, but they
have developed so much competency in
actually being a constructor that
>> they're building a car, right? Like a
like a road car.
>> Yeah. They're like a real car company
now.
>> Yeah.
>> Not technically road, but track. So,
they're building a super car. limited
production and all that, but like a car
that you can go buy and race on a
racetrack. I think it's the RB17.
It's the last thing Adrian Newui did
when he was there is design this car.
And I mean, you look around like what
does a car company do? It makes the
body. It makes the power units. Red Bull
has Red Bull power trains, which is a
lot of former Honda people that they've
sort of hired and now they're working
with Ford. But like they they do a lot
of the things that a car company does.
>> Yep. It's an incredible story. And as
you start to think about dragging this
sport kicking and screaming into the
21st century and positioning for the
social media era, you could imagine that
uh this is a really good thing. So
meanwhile during this era, as we alluded
to earlier, there is another hugely
successful team that builds its own
dynasty
>> that comes out of nowhere,
>> also gets purchased for one British
pound.
And uh listeners, I suspect unless you
are a hardcore F1 fan, you probably will
not be able to guess what team this is,
but see if you can figure it out as we
go along.
>> But who is it in 2006, David? What is
what does the team start as?
>> So, we talked a second ago about Michael
Schumacher's dominance of the league in
the late 90s and early 2000s at Ferrari.
Side note, did you know he is one of the
first athletes to pass a billion dollar
in career earnings? It was apparently
right around the same time as Tiger
Woods.
>> No way. I didn't know that.
>> Yes.
>> How?
>> Michael Schumacher was getting paid $60
million a year.
>> Wow.
>> In that era. Like that's what Max and
Lewis make today.
>> Today.
>> And and with all the inflation that's
happened with the growth of the sport. I
mean, this illustrates just how much
Ferrari is perfectly willing to burn
money to win. Like they they will
generate an infinite amount of losses in
order to win in Formula 1. You had the
driver of his generation, sort of the
the person who took the torch post Senna
and is so obviously the best driver.
>> And obviously, you know, most athletes
that you would think of who be have
become billionaires didn't become
billionaires because of their sport
salaries, right? It was off the field,
but
>> and Shoemarker had a lot of off the-
field stuff, too. Interesting.
Interesting. Huh. All right. Well, so
one thing we didn't talk about in
Shoemarker's dominance at Ferrari was
like, yes, it was him. He was the driver
of his generation,
but it was also the engineering team
behind him. and specifically the
engineering team led by technical
director at Ferrari at the time, Ross
Braun.
>> Okay. And the whole tires thing. We got
to talk about that.
>> Okay. Well, well, I'm going to get into
it. So, so what Braun realized, maybe
not first, but I think better than
anybody, was the dynamic we talked about
earlier, that after the FAA started
clamping down so much on the rules, the
way to win was to exploit loopholes. So
Braraw figured out a whole bunch of
stuff together with Schumacher
>> and Schumacher's work ethic was
unbelievable. I mean there's another
great documentary that people should
watch, Schumacher on Netflix, but he was
like a driver and an engineer or like a
driver and a mechanic. He's always in
the garage. He's there at all hours.
He's getting as many test laps in as he
can. And this is an era where you could
do that. He's spending, you know, if
he's not on the track and he's not in
the garage, then he's working out and
he's his work ethic is just like
unbelievable.
>> Yeah. He's an animal. He's like he's the
Max Verstoppen of his era,
>> but he's got a wrench in his hand and
he's like, he's also ultimate
collaborator for the engineers.
>> Yes. So, they figure out that there's a
loophole with the way tires work in F1.
So for a brief period of time, you could
pick between one of two tire
manufacturers. Bridgestone had a big
issue. So almost everyone said, "Oh,
we're going to move away from
Bridgestone to Michelin." And Ferrari
and Ross Bronn in particular realized,
"Well, wait a minute. If we're the only
ones that stick with Bridgestone, like
yeah, it's counterintuitive to do that
because like these tires apparently have
a big problem, but like if we send a
bunch of engineers over there, they send
a bunch of over engineers over here, we
can effectively have custommade tires
just for our car and just for Michael's
driving style. And so they spent a year
working together basically getting to
develop their own custom tires whereas
everyone else who were on the Michelins
had to use this sort of like common
denominator tire that worked with all
the cars and all the driving styles.
>> Yep. It's important we should note here
for folks who are not deep F1 fans.
The one I think maybe the only part of
F1 cars that commonmandated across the
whole league
>> tires in the halo.
>> Tires in the halo. Yep. Yep. Whereas if
you look at like NASCAR or like other
motorsports out there, a lot of stuff is
mandated to be common and like the
degrees of freedom of parts of the car
that you can actually engineer is like
much much much narrower. It's part of
what makes F1 unique is and and so
expensive is that every car truly is
custom engineered except for the halo
and the tires.
>> Yeah. Teams are designing their own
bolts.
>> Yes. Yes. So here, Bronn and Schumacher
and Ferrari are like, "Oh, wow. We just
found a way to custom engineer our own
tires." Like, "Hell yeah." So that was a
big part of Schumacher and Ferrari's
dynasty.
>> So the FIA eventually closes the tire
loophole. Braun leaves Ferrari and
becomes the team principal of Honda,
which he joins in 2007 ahead of the 2008
season. Now, remember we said a minute
ago that in 2008 with the financial
crisis, Honda exits the sport.
>> Yep.
>> So, Braun is one year into the job and
they come to him and they're like,
"Ah, sorry, we're going to shut the team
down. We got to get out of the sport.
Like, this is untenable in this
environment. We can't be operating an F1
team. Braun is scrambling. He just went
from like top of the world at Ferrari to
getting to be team principal at Honda
and now he's out of a job with, as good
as he is, no real prospects for another
one because this is bad times for the
sport.
>> And there are very limited chairs in
this world.
>> Yes. So, he's scrambling and he's like,
"Wait, wait, wait, wait a minute, Honda,
you're worried about looking bad to the
public and shareholders by continuing to
operate an F1 team in this climate. You
know what's going to make you look even
worse? If you lay off the like thousand
people that are part of this team. So,
how about instead instead
>> you just give me some time. Yeah, you
don't I understand you might need to lay
everyone off. Look, that business
reality. Give me a few months and I will
find a buyer for the team. I just need
you to keep everyone employed so that
there's something to sell.
>> Yes. Yes.
>> Looks around, can't find anything as you
would expect. Come
>> 2008, the world's falling apart.
>> Back to Honda and says, "Look, I know we
have very limited time left. We're not
going to find another buyer.
>> What about a management buyout?"
>> Yeah, I'll take it off your hands. And
when I say buyout, I'm also not really
going to give you any money.
>> Yeah.
>> But what if what if
there's some period of time where you
agree to keep funding people's salaries,
I'll give you one British pound. Yep.
>> You give me the team and then at some
point you're fully out, but we have some
sort of consulting agreement in the
meantime. some some contract
>> you know run way down to you know do a
soft landing here for the team and these
people
>> but you get to tell your board and the
shareholders that like you are no longer
wasting money on this extraneous thing
>> and you're not going to lay off you know
a thousand people in England
>> y
>> so apparently I don't know if you read
this Bernie of course gets wind of
what's going on
>> oh Bernie does not like Ross Bron
>> he does no no no he doesn't like Braraw
anyway he definitely doesn't like
somebody else buying a team for one
pound. He tries to swoop in and convince
the Honda board that they should sell it
to him instead.
>> Oh, I didn't realize that.
>> Yes. Yes. Yes. Never mind that he's like
head of F1.
>> Yeah. Well,
>> he's still willing to buy the team.
>> He just generally doesn't like the idea
that there's a transaction that doesn't
go through him.
>> Yes. Or or that there's a good deal to
be had and he's not getting in on it.
Great drama. If only this drama could be
televised.
>> In fact, there is a great Keanu Reeves
documentary.
>> Yes. Yes. It's called Braun.
>> called Braun on this team. It's awesome.
>> Anyway, back to the story at hand.
Amazingly, Honda doesn't go with Bernie.
The board decides, you know what? We're
going to stick with who br us. We'll
sell the team to you, Ross, for one
pound. But when we say we're out, we'll
fund you for the year, but we're really
out. We're not going to give you an
engine anymore.
>> Right. That's So Ross is like, "But
surely I can just like enter into a
commercial agreement and pay you like
$15 million or, you know, whatever it is
to be the engine supplier and and you'll
give me an engine. Like you've already
made the engines in the years past.
They're going to be the same or similar.
>> This used to be your team,
>> right?"
>> Nope. They're like, "This is where we
draw the line. We can't be putting any
more money besides the salaries of these
people into F1."
>> So quick pause. Uh it is worth noting
every team makes their own engines.
There's only at any given time a handful
of engine suppliers. And so like
Mercedes today makes the engine for the
Mercedes car, but McLaren also goes and
buys the engine from Mercedes. So this
is like a reasonably common.
>> Yeah. Ferrari will supply engines to
other teams.
>> Cadillac is racing in a a Ferrari
engine.
>> Yep. Yep. Yep. Exactly. So Ross is
desperate. He goes and chats with
Mercedes who, as you said, Ben, have
been out of the sport since I think 1955
or whatever we said earlier.
>> Yeah, they at this point in time do not
have a team and since that horrific
crash all those decades before, y
>> not in F1.
>> Not in F1, but they had been supplying
engines to McLaren. So, Mercedes says,
"Okay, Ross Braun.
We have our McLaren relationship that's
very important to us, but we respect you
and your body of work at Ferrari, and we
respect what you're trying to do here.
We will supply you an engine for 2009.
You know, we're we're still loyal to
McLaren, but like we will give you an
engine so that you can compete with your
team this season and not shut it down."
>> And it like it sort of doesn't fit in
the chassis that Honda had developed.
They had to like do some real
aftermarket janky stuff. So, everyone
thinks this car is going to absolutely
suck.
>> Suck. Yes. Suck.
>> Oh, by the way, the team is called Brawn
GP. It's not even like a real company.
They The team just looked at Ross Braraw
and they were like, "You're a leader, so
how about calling it Braun?" Like the
whole
>> Yeah. They couldn't even line up a title
sponsor.
>> And they're even landing sponsors for
like individual races because they can't
actually land for
>> the financial crisis. Nobody wants to
Yeah, exactly.
>> The whole thing. Nobody expects anything
performance-wise
>> out of this team.
>> Yes.
>> Well, it turns out that before the Honda
engineers
got pulled away back to Japan.
They had come up with a new aerodynamic
innovation called the double diffuser.
>> Oh yes.
>> I have no idea how this thing works. I
just know that it performs like a beast.
And most things you read about it really
don't explain how it works either. In
general, what diffusers do is they
direct the air flow that is coming out
from the bottom of the car uh up and
sort of out of the way to ideally shape
the aerodynamics as the air escapes the
back of the car.
>> Somehow they came up with a double
version of it.
>> But everyone's challenging it at the
beginning of the season going, "Wait,
wait, wait. This isn't legal. It
performs so well that by mid-season
everyone else has adopted double
diffuser too.
>> Yeah. I mean you're burying the lead
which is first race of the season in
Australia in Melbourne. These two Braraw
GP Franken cars roll out and they win
first and second place.
>> Like they blow away the field. Uh Jensen
Button who was the the first driver on
the team. He wins six of the first seven
races of the season. Uh, it's like
sending the sport into chaos.
>> Yes. And I I wish I had known this,
David. We had just started our research
on F1.
>> And we met Jensen.
>> We met Jensen. We went to the Las Vegas
Grand Prix with Service Now. And part of
the whole weekend of festivities they
had planned for us was a lunchon with
Jensen Button. He was telling the
stories of the Bron GP. I did not
appreciate this is the outlier of
outliers. No, no team has been on this
shoestring of a budget with this type of
Franken car uh and this real
underdogness and performed in such
spectacular success the way they did.
>> Yeah. Usually it's like either you're
Ferrari and you invest hundreds and
hundreds of millions of dollars or
you're Red Bull, you hire away Adrian
Newui and even then it takes several
years to develop a winning car. This
just doesn't happen in F1.
>> No. And so David, how does the season
end? So by like a hair's width, Jensen
and Braun had accumulated enough of a
lead in the first half of the season
that even though they don't win a single
race in the second half of the season
after everybody else also figures out
the double diffusers, they still end up
winning both the constructors and the
drivers championships.
So, in one year, this team and Ross
Braun went from like new Honda team
principal to nearly out of the sport to
owner of his own team for one pound to
world champion.
>> This is what makes F1 great. It's It's
really not watching the races. The The
races are fine. There's not that much
passing. Once you get through the first
turn, you know, you kind of know who's
most likely to win. and it's probably
from one of the top four teams anyways.
It's not any given Sunday the way that
that NFL game is.
>> But this act of heroics and teamwork and
personality and perseverance
>> and engineering
>> and engineering like this is what makes
F1 great.
>> So there's just one problem for the you
know new world champions. They don't
have funding for the next year. Uh,
there's no way, as cool as it would be
to continue the Cinderella story.
Braun GP and its current financial state
and ownership can't continue for the
2010 season.
>> Yeah,
>> there's just not enough money to invest
in developing the next car, etc., etc.
So, Ross knows that he has to sell the
team. And of course, who's the logical
buyer now? Mercedes.
They don't currently have a motorsport
team. They clearly are interested.
>> They make your engine.
>> Make the engine. They've just had all of
this success with Brawn. Yeah, they have
the strategic partnership with McLaren,
but like, hey, what's McLaren compared
to an opportunity to own their own team?
So, they announce in the offseason that
they're dumping McLaren. Mercedes is and
buying a 75% majority share in brawn for
$200 million and renaming the team to
Mercedes. the storied Mercedes team that
you know of today where Lewis Hamilton
won six drivers championships and the
team won eight straight constructors
championships is the team that rises out
of the ashes of Braun GP.
>> Incredible. Just incredible. The first
thing they do after they buy their team,
they're so excited. They hire Michael
Schumacher to come out of retirement.
Lewis Hamilton is still a young kid at
this point in time. They hire Schumacher
out of retirement to come reunite with
Braun, the dream team, and you know,
drive this monster car. Yeah. Doesn't
work out.
>> It's like Jordan on the Wizards.
>> Yeah. This is the Jordan and the Wizards
era.
>> Although, I mean, I was going to say
it's like Tom Brady, but Tom Brady won a
Super Bowl with the Bucks. So,
>> yeah. Yeah. No, Schumacher and Braun and
Mercedes do not win another Super Bowl.
Everybody else had picked up the double
diffuser and that that really was the
advantage that they had. It wasn't any
more than that.
>> And I think Mercedes thought they were
buying something that had somewhat of a
durable advantage. You know, oh maybe
you've started thinking about next year.
The team really hadn't. And so there's
sort of this realization at Mercedes of,
oh crap, we bought a lemon.
>> Yeah. we need to put hundreds of
millions of dollars into this on top of
that stake that we already bought. And
to Mercedes's credit, they did. I mean,
they they could have cut their losses
and said, "Ah, this doesn't make sense
for us." And instead, they built
arguably the best Formula 1 team to ever
exist across multiple decades.
>> Well, they bring on a partner.
>> Yes.
So, after a couple years of Schumacher
and Braun,
>> Braun, by the way, who bought the team
for a pound and then sold 75% of it for
$200 million.
>> Yeah, he's doing just fine.
But after a couple years, Mercedes
decides this isn't working. They fire
Braraw and Schumacher, which is crazy.
Who fires Michael Schumacher,
>> right?
>> Mercedes F1. This is what happens. and
they make two key hires in each of their
places. As team principal, they bring in
Austrian businessman who previously had
been an investor in the Williams F1 team
named Toto Wolf. And again, if you watch
Drive to Survive, you definitely know
Toto.
>> Yep.
>> Probably the best Formula 1 team
executive in history. Certainly by
valuation increase.
>> Yes. Yeah. I've got some numbers for you
later on why.
>> Yes. Okay. So, put a put a pin in that.
Who could you possibly hire to replace
Michael Schumacher as your number one
driver on the Mercedes team? Well,
obviously you know the answer. A young
British racing driver, Lewis Hamilton.
>> Yep.
>> Yep. So, Toto Lewis and then the other
driver they bring on, Nico Rosberg, as
you said, Ben, would go on to win eight
constructors championships in a row. And
Nico won the drivers championship one of
those teammates Lewis. Yeah.
>> So it's not even like, oh well, they had
Lewis Hamilton, so how good was the car
really? It's like, no,
>> no, no, it was the car.
>> The one year that Lewis didn't win, Nico
won.
>> Yep. Certainly the most dominant run in
the history of the sport. And this ended
Red Bull's own run. But what was so
great for the sport during this period
is it's not like the shoeer era where
the top team is just blowing away the
field. You now have this great drama of
the fight every season between Mercedes
and
>> is it Vettle? Is it Hamilton? Is it the
young upand cominging Versappen?
>> Yes. Yes. It's these epic dramas that
are playing out on the track and really
it's these two teams that create the
modern era for the teams and for the
sport. I mean Christian Horner at Red
Bull and and certainly Toto at Mercedes.
They are a totally new breed of team
principles. These guys are CEOs and and
Zack Brown at McLaren is also he
actually is the CEO.
>> He's literally not the team principal.
He is just the CEO.
>> He's just the CEO. They're playing roles
that nobody at the team level had ever
played before except Enzo Ferrari and
Bernie. And Bernie, of course, had
greater aspirations.
>> They're building these businesses.
They're not just building race cars and
and race teams.
>> Yep. So, just to quickly take the
Mercedes example, Ross Braun buys it in
2008 2009 for one pound from Honda.
Mercedes buys it a year later or 75% of
it for200 million pounds.
Today, Mercedes is worth6 billion under
Toto. Not not Mercedes, the car company.
The Mercedes racing team alone
just did a minority transaction valuing
the team at $6 billion.
>> Yes. That is what, twice as much as all
the cash that Bernie pulled out of F1 in
its entirety during his heyday just for
one team.
>> Yep. And speaking of valuations and
Bernie and cashing out
in 2016,
as all this is taking place, F1 finally
lands in the right set of hands to
shepherd the sport going forward. Yep.
So, starting a few years after CVC and
Bernie reacquired
F1 the league,
CBC starts reselling minority pieces of
F1 to other asset managers out there,
including BlackRock, um the Norwegian
Sovereign Wealth Fund, Noris Bank at
increasing valuations.
They also load F1 up with a bunch of
debt again and pull cash out. They
actually put $4 billion dollar of debt
on the league. I mean, this is what
private equity does, but
>> and the cash flows are growing at F1,
like thanks to the new races and the
increasing TV contracts, etc., etc. But
by 2016, CBC is now down to a 35%
ownership stake. They've pulled out a
total of $4.5 billion dollars of cash
through a combination of the debt and
equity sales. Remember, they and Bernie
only put in 900 million to start. And
they still own the largest single stake
in 35% in the league. But it's time for
a transition of power, shall we say, a
full exit.
>> And we've checked in a few different
times along the way. What is Formula 1
at this point? Cuz it was the weird
Bernie entities and then it was the
holding company in his wife's name.
>> Yeah.
>> At this point, it is a company that is
owned by CBC.
>> But interestingly, a thing to know is
that company doesn't actually own the
sport.
>> But what it does have, did you find this
David? The 2001 deal
>> 100year uh management rights. Yeah. The
the key asset that this company owns is
in 2001,
Bernie had secured the 100-year
commercial rights to Formula 1 from the
FIA
>> in a no bid process.
>> In a no bid process for $360 million.
When you think what is the asset really,
the asset is the right to run the
business of what FIA defines as Formula
1.
>> Yeah. So basically all the commercial
activities except team sponsorships
which are the providence of the teams
and race tickets which are the
providence of the promoters.
>> And there's some other little things
that the teams make money on and that
the promoters make money on but but
basically yes. So, in September of 2016,
it finally gets announced that the
American media company Liberty Media is
acquiring F1
for $4.4 billion of equity value and
assuming all of the outstanding debt
that the company has for a combined
total enterprise value of $8 billion.
Now, the way they do it is interesting.
uh Liberty and John Malone and Greg
Mafay. We've talked about Liberty many
times over the years. Unacquired. They
are masters of deals and financial
engineering. The way they do it, they
initially acquire a like 18 19% stake in
F1 from CVC. So enough to make them the
largest shareholder. And then they
actually changed the whole name of
Liberty Media, the company, the publicly
traded company into the Formula One
group, create a new tracking stock to
track the value of F1 Group,
>> FW
K or Funk as the investment community
refers to it.
>> I know. It's so great. And then they
issue flunk shares to the remaining
equity holders including CBC and Bernie
etc. such that a 100% of the company is
now liquid and publicly traded. The
completely fascinating thing about
Liberty Media today is it sort of
doesn't exist anymore. They bought F1,
then they did enough other spin-offs
through the Atlanta Braves spin-off,
through Liberty Live, the the Live
Nation spin-off. At this point, like 90%
of Liberty itself is Formula 1 and the
stock is actually Formula 1. It's like
they spun out everything else that was
left and so the holding company is
actually basically Formula 1 now. And so
the plan that they announced is that
former Fox and News Corp executive Chase
Kerry, who had been president and COO of
News Corp, would become chairman of F1,
but that Bernie would remain as CEO.
Now, Chase Kerry had been a total legend
at Fox. I mean, I remember him when I
worked at News Corp and at Dow Jones.
Chase helped Rupert launch Fox Sports
and built the whole Fox NFL program.
>> Like
that was Chase. So he's the right man
for the job. And he brings over a team
of like all the NFL OGs, Fox and NFL
OGs. So Sean Bratche who had been one of
the key people who had built ESPN during
its kind of parallel rise with Sports
Center and comes and joins the team and
the whole thesis is that Formula 1 is
this incredible sport, incredible fan
base, incredible asset,
and we can see with what's going on at
Red Bull and at Mercedes that like it's
going to crush in the modern era. it
just needs the right management to like
get out of the way and let this happen
>> and that Bernie had sort of
systematically underinvested which which
created opportunity. So
>> yes,
>> there was almost no US market
development. I mean they by this point
they had circuit of the Americas in
Austin uh but no other US races yet.
There was very limited sort of
storytelling around the sport and
digital investment. There was no social
media presence. The property was mostly
behind like a closed pay wall with
restricted ass access especially in the
US and really it was about old white
guys with money as the demographic. So
is this like if you kind of like looked
at it with a modern media company
approach you're like oh there's low
hanging fruit everywhere here
>> asset just waiting to be unlocked.
>> Yes. So pretty quickly when Chase and
Liberty come in, um it becomes clear
that there's not enough room for two
bosses in F1 of Chase being chairman and
Bernie remaining as CEO. I mean really
there as long as Bernie's there, there's
not room for anyone else to run
anything.
Mhm.
>> So on January 23rd, 2017, after they had
announced the acquisition the previous
fall, Liberty announces that Bernie is
stepping down as CEO. He will become
honorary chairman emeritus and an
advisor to the board of directors of F1,
but not actually on the board. So in
other words, Liberty fires him. I mean,
they had to. There's no way that they
could do what they wanted to do and and
what needed to be done as long as he was
still there holding the reigns.
>> This is a classic what got you here
won't get you there situation.
>> Yeah.
>> All that stuff that Bernie did no doubt
built the sport and created the sport
and the way in which it needed to go
from here. Bernie could do almost none
of those things and was probably holding
it back at this point.
>> Yep. Yep. So, I was doing the math on
his run. What year did he sort of start
becoming the steward of Formula 1?
>> 1972.
>> And he left in 2017.
>> Long run,
>> 45 year run. I can't think of a sport, a
sporting league in the world that was
basically controlled by a person for
almost half a century like that. The
closest that I can think of is Pete
Riselle, 30 years at the helm of the
NFL.
>> Yep.
>> Yeah. So, Chase takes over as CEO and he
and Liberty know they have their work
cut out for them. So, they come up with
a fourpoint plan. Number one, most
importantly, they need to fix the
relationships with the teams. Thanks to
Red Bull and Mercedes, teams had started
to become more successful financially,
more businessminded on their own, but
the relationship with Formula 1, the
league was still like highly contentious
through all of this. Arguably even more
so as they were growing in power under
Bernie.
>> So the cost cap is the obvious thing to
do. And like we said, really it it was
the indication of how broken things were
before that Bernie and the FIA couldn't
get it done and it resulted in the photo
breakaway attempt. Like
>> cuz if you don't have a cost cap, you
are just going to have teams that have
some either independent funding or some
other business that lets them go
hundreds of millions of dollars into the
red, which basically means everyone
needs to to compete with them. Which
means that other than those 1 2 3 four
teams, you're just going to keep
churning your bottom six on the grid
over and over and over again because
they can't run a viable business.
>> So number one priority is they got to
fix the teams, which they do in the
first Concord agreement that Liberty
negotiates. They get everyone to agree
to a cost cap of $145 million in
expenses on the car. So, not including
driver salaries, that's separate.
This is huge.
>> And not including the three most
powerful executives or the highest paid
executives, not including marketing
spend. And power units are outside the
cost cap, too. So, it's a cost cap for
sure. And um you know, it it gets some
of the job done, but if you spit off a
lot of cash, there's still plenty of
ways to spend that cash to become more
successful. Yes, that is definitely
true. But I think it really does end up
functioning kind of as intended, like a
salary cap in other sports. The Cowboys
can spend a lot more on marketing than
the other teams,
>> but but they haven't been to the Super
Bowl in a while.
>> Yeah. Right. Right. Right. You know, the
amount that they can spend on, you know,
their equivalent of the car on the
field, in that case, the players is same
as everybody else.
>> And they also implement wind tunnel
restrictions. You can only spend so much
time in the wind tunnel. We already have
the restrictions on testing in season.
So there really are at this point heavy
restrictions. It's gone from 145 million
down to 135, but then it got adjusted
now up to 170 with inflation and with
adding more races because you get to add
more to the cost cap for that. But you
know, they're they're now spending every
team under 170 million. Then there were
several teams that were spending four
500 million before.
>> This is huge. It instantly makes every
team at least close to break even. It
doesn't make every team profitable, but
it makes a lot of teams profitable. And
for the top teams, this overnight makes
them like immensely profitable. So, when
we talked about Mercedes going from
being worth one pound to6 billion, this
is why the Mercedes team is a great
business now, like an NFL level
business.
>> Yes. And Ferrari obviously hasn't
traded, but certainly is worth more than
that. And every team, as we talked about
at the top of the episode, is worth at
least a billion and a half now.
>> Yeah. So, the numbers on this now are
the average revenue per team today in
2026 is about 430 million. About 60% of
that comes from sponsorship. And the
next highest comes from the sort of
distributions coming from Formula 1
Group. We'll talk about how those
distributions work later, but what's
their share of meteorites and
everything. Uh then they have kind of
five to 15% uh that come from selling
merch or engines or licensing or garage
tours or what have you, but 60% is
sponsorship. Um, and so if your average
revenue team per team is around 430
million and the cost cap is only 170
million plus your driver plus your
marketing expenses plus your you can
kind of see how these become pretty
quickly at least break even or close to
break even businesses.
>> Now there there are some outliers uh
toward the front of the grid like you
were saying Mercedes does 800 million in
revenue now.
>> Wow. Ferrari 670, McLaren somewhere
right in that neighborhood too around 6
650 to 700 uh 420 for Red Bull Racing.
15 years ago all four of those teams
were operating at a loss and 10 years
ago most of them were operating at a
loss.
>> Yeah, it's interesting back to your
point earlier about Red Bull strategy.
They could be making much more I think
and they intentionally choose not to.
>> That's exactly right. They they try to
keep their profit margin at their
operating margin at like 1% or less.
>> Yeah.
>> So McLaren now does 70ish million uh in
profit. Ferrari does about 80 million.
But the real outlier, Mercedes does an
estimated 200 million in operating
income from Formula 1 now.
>> Wow. I mean that's like the level that
Bernie was making for the whole league a
couple decades ago,
>> right? 25% operating income.
>> Yeah. And on top of being phenomenally
profitable, Toto Wolf estimated in 2021
that Mercedes that he thinks Mercedes
gets a billion dollars of advertising
equivalent value for being involved in
the sport.
>> Yeah, easy.
>> So on $600 million of total spend last
year, Mercedes generated a double bottom
line of over a billion dollars in
marketing equivalent value plus $200
million in actual profit.
>> I mean, think back to 10, 20 years ago.
Mercedes was just like luxury cruisers,
you know, like yeah, they had AMG, you
could get more horsepower in your
S-Class, but like nobody thought these
things were Ferraris.
>> Yeah.
>> Now they're a legitimate sports car
maker.
>> Yep.
>> We should say Total Wolf is just so
unbelievably impressive. So they're an
extreme outlier in doing 200 million a
year in operating income. And this isn't
like they're underinvesting. They are a
competitive team at the front of the
grid. So they're not holding back an R&D
investment. That $6 billion number that
you cited, David, is is real because
that is a transaction that happened
where the CEO of Crowdstrike bought into
Toto's holding company to get a sort of
proxy ownership in the team. So why does
Toto have a
uh a little holding company of his own?
Unlike all the other team principles,
Toto is a major equity owner in the
team. So when he joined the team in
2013, he negotiated to own almost a
third of the team, which at the time the
whole team was worth about 165 million
and it's now 13 years later worth $6
billion.
So he's now a billionaire from his team
ownership even though it's actually like
the the main owner is Mercedes. He just
managed to become a major equity owner
and that is really unique among team
principles.
>> Yeah. So that's obviously priority
number one for Liberty is we got to fix
the teams to fix the sport. less
obviously
priority number two was they had to fix
the relationships with the race
promoters with the tracks. Talk about a
stakeholder that Bernie had just been uh
extracting from
the whole calendar as we talked about a
minute ago was just designed to maximize
race fee payments to F1. There was zero
consideration or thought at the league
level about how to make the races
themselves successful.
Like how do you market each one and grow
the pie and you know avoid a situation
where you have this huge middle of the
pack of the races that nobody cares
about? That's not good for the sport. I
mean, when Liberty came in, there was so
much mistrust with the race promoters
that other than the just straight
economic fee payments, none of the races
shared anything
with F1 the league. So, no data on fan
attendance, no marketing strategies,
nothing. Well, think about just how
squeezed you were getting. You walk up
to F1 as a race promoter and say, "Hi,
I'd like to have a race, please. is I
own a racetrack and they say, "Okay,
well,
>> send back this contract and a $50
million payment,
>> right? Pay us $20 million if you're, you
know, one of the European tracks. Pay us
$40, $50 million if you're one of these
new US ones trying to come online. Pay
us $50 to $60 million if you're a Middle
East sovereign wealth fund. Oh, and your
revenue streams, right? Well, the
Paddock Club, that's all going to belong
to us." Yeah.
>> And um the sponsorships on the
racetrack, that's going to belong to us,
too.
Um,
>> I guess you can sell tickets.
>> You can sell tickets. Uh, you should set
up some hot dog stands. I think food and
bev that that you
>> Oh, yeah. But also food and bev for
paddic club. We're doing that.
>> No cameras cuz of course we've already
sold the media rights and that
exclusively flows to us and you don't
get to participate in that.
>> So, you probably aren't going to be
profitable on this. And if you are,
certainly not in the first few years.
You might want to get your local
government to kick in. This is gonna be
great for the city, which it is. So, my
advice on getting profitable on this
thing would be go get some tax help.
Find other people's money. Yeah.
Exactly. Exactly. So, one of the first
things they do is they get all the race
promoters together, you know, in a room
and say
>> they're business partners. They should
be.
>> Yes. We're partners. We're partners.
>> They're not competing with each other.
>> We got to work together here and let's
share data. like, hey, there's a lot of
hardcore fans that like travel race to
race. Shouldn't we all be sharing data
and like marketing to those people and
getting them to come to more races in
more cities? Just no-brainer stuff.
Ultimately, the vision here, which has
mostly been realized, I think, is this
is an opportunity for 22 Super Bowls
every year
>> in cities and countries around the
world. when F1 comes to your country,
comes to your city, it is an entire
weekend that should be treated just like
the Super Bowl. So like, let us help you
make that happen. Let us help you get
musical acts. Let us help you coordinate
the celebrity attendees. Let us help you
coordinate social media.
>> Austin has been really smart about this.
The Circuit of the Americas, they've
landed Taylor Swift, Ed Sheeran, Sting,
Eminem, Gar Brooks. they really do turn
it into this just giant festival. And it
all kind of stems from uh an admission
that the race might not be that good.
So, you need to provide an experience
for everyone. Whether
>> I think they would argue that the whole
weekend needs to be great,
>> right? There's one of four teams who are
going to be on the podium and after you
do the qualifying, whoever's in poll has
like a very good chance of winning. And
um after the first turn, if there's no
crashes and after the first lap, then we
pretty much know. So I hope the rest of
the activities are fun.
>> Yeah. So fix stakeholder relations with
the tracks. Number two.
>> Number three,
>> fix stakeholder relations with the fans.
We've alluded to this a little bit, but
and Red Bull and Mercedes and Lewis
Hamilton were starting to push the
edges, but like F1 had a huge social
media problem.
Bernie and and F1 had been doing
everything they could to keep the sport
in sort of the heyday state for them of
the mid 90s where he controlled
everything. It all flowed through
Bernie.
>> Control over growth. If you have to pick
between those two things, control.
>> Yes, I control TV. I control the
presentation. I control the race fees. I
control the journalist access. I control
who gets to go where in the paddock club
and when, who gets to see what, etc.,
etc., etc., It was so bad that Lewis
Hamilton when he came into the sport as
this incredible star who, you know, had
global appeal, was the first real F1
driver to become a legit celebrity in
America,
>> the first superstar black athlete in
Formula 1, like
>> first black athlete period. There were
no other black athletes before since all
the things that Lewis Hamilton is. He
being a native millennial wanted to have
an Instagram account
>> and and that's underelling like being
one of the most fames savvy individuals
>> that too.
>> And what he had that he brought into
Liberty's office was a stack of cease
and desist letters
>> that Bernie kept sending him to take
down posts on his Instagram because he
was quote illegally distributing F1's
intellectual property.
That's how bad this was.
>> Nothing sums it up better than that.
>> Yeah. So, Liberty immediately is like,
"Yes, please, Lewis, post as much as you
want on your Instagram."
>> Yep.
>> And then finally, and related, there was
also just a whole basket of lowhanging
fruit opportunities to grow the sport.
So, one of these was esports and video
games. There had been an independent
video game studio in the UK that had
been making official F1 video games for
several years. Shortly after Liberty
acquires F1, that studio gets acquired
by Electronic Arts, makers of Madden and
FIFA that do billions of dollars of
revenue for EA and their league partners
every year. Liberty works with them.
Another initiative, again, remember
Chase and the whole crew, they're coming
from the NFL world. Among the many
things that the NFL has done so great
over the years is turning all the
offseason content into exciting
marketable events like the NFL draft.
Well, what's the equivalent of the NFL
draft for F1? The testing period. Let's
televise the testing period. Let's make
it an event. Let's generate revenue and
grow the sport. Can we generate
narrative out of it? I mean, all the
sports journalists who cover F1 right
now can't stop writing about how little
track time the Aston Martin team has
gotten because of the new crazy stuff
that, by the way, Adrien Newi is now
designing for Aston Martin.
>> He's team principal now.
>> So, he's got some new crazy design that
uh isn't, I guess, super reliable yet.
And so there's all these great, you
know, stories being talked about of how
are the drivers going to do when they've
had so little time to actually practice
with all the other drivers. This is
exactly what you want.
>> Yep. And all that was just falling on
the floor before. No engagement, no
revenue, no utilization of that.
>> Yep.
>> So then the last bucket is also pretty
obvious. We should probably go start
courting Hollywood. Uh, racing movies
seem to be pretty popular.
>> Medium popular.
>> People like them. I mean, especially for
the budgets that they've been made for
in the past. Uh, certainly this is a
sport that lends itself to visually
compelling narratives.
>> I think you're right that the initial
thing was, oh yeah, people like racing
and this is visually compelling. That
was actually wrong. That is not the
correct thesis, but it is the place to
start.
>> Yep. Of course, what we're getting at is
they end up with
I think the most impactful
piece of sports media in history,
>> ever across any sport. Absolutely. And
that is Netflix's Drive to Survive.
>> Oh, yeah.
>> All right. So they go to Netflix, these
clever F1 guys, and they say, "Hey, I I
think you should do a series." And the
initial idea, David, like you're saying,
is race cars are cool, visually
compelling, people like racing.
>> Seems like a no-brainer.
>> And what it would evolve to really, it's
a human drama.
>> Yes.
>> It's about when we said there's three
concurrent competitions. There's a
driving competition, there's the World
Cup of Engineering, and there's the
World Cup of Office Politics. It turns
out the World Cup of Office Politics is
an amazing amazing thing for a uh
effectively a reality TV show,
especially
>> the most compelling television product
>> when you then uh as secondary flare
elements layer in race cars going super
fast,
>> occasionally crashing.
>> Yes. attractive mid20s dudes in the most
extravagant amazing places on earth
swimming and being on yachts and
partying the night before your big race
and it it's it's just perfect.
>> It's incredible. But the human story,
that is the killer unlock of Drive to
Survive.
>> And it was so perfectly made for what
everybody in the sport needed at the
time because if you had made Drive to
Survive for, I don't know, let's take um
the NBA. Sure, it would have succeeded
on a lot of the dimensions you just
mentioned, but the hardcore fans would
hate it because they'd say like, "This
isn't basketball. Come on." Right? This
is just fluff for attracting new
audiences.
The thing about F1 at this moment is
everybody was so starved for access. Any
glimpse behind the curtain that even the
most hardcore petrol heads who would be
the first to say like, "Yeah, of course
this isn't the sport. This isn't F1."
They loved it, too. They'd never gotten
to peek behind the curtain.
>> All right. So, how did it come to be?
So, Netflix and Liberty start talking.
F1 was also pitching Amazon on doing
something, trying to get a little bit of
a bidding war here. Who's it going to
be? Netflix or Amazon or someone else.
Amazon already had something in the
works with Mercedes and Lewis Hamilton
that was just focused on them. But
hilariously,
F1 and Liberty control the actual track
rights. So even though Amazon was going
to get the rights to Lewis and Mercedes,
they couldn't film the documentary on
track.
So it kind of ruins the whole thing.
Ultimately,
you do need F1 to play ball. So, Amazon
ends up bidding the most for the
leaguewide thing, the thing that would
become Drive to Survive. Liberty comes
back with that bid in hand to Netflix
and says, "Hey, can you guys match
this?" Rumors are that it was about
double the Netflix bid.
>> This is the rights payment that Netflix
or Amazon would pay to F1 for the right
to go make this series,
>> which is the way it used to work. But
based on how successful Drive to Survive
has become, you don't have to pay the
sports leagues anything.
>> Netflix doesn't pay those sports
leagues. Even the NFL, they don't pay
them anymore.
>> It's such a giant giant spotlight on
your sport. Yeah.
>> You know, they're small numbers. I think
it was the order of like 5 million
versus 10 million or something like
that. But Netflix comes back and says,
you know what, we're at our ceiling, but
we do think we're the best partner for
this. So, our offer remains the same. If
you guys are really focused and really
mean it about growing the sport is the
priority here. Our global audience is
gonna grow the sport.
>> So Liberty goes for it. They say, "Yep,
we're in for the lower price." And at
this point in time, Netflix's audience
in the US was something like 2x what
Amazon's. Once Netflix secures these
rights, they then start working down a
list of production companies. Boxtobox
Films wins because they had done that
2010 Senna documentary which is great. I
highly recommend folks find it and watch
it. BoxtoBox had already been working
with Red Bull Racing on a documentary
idea just focused on them. I had heard
rumors that the whole thing started as a
Red Bull documentary. Now it makes
sense.
>> Yes. So ultimately the Red Bull idea
gets scrapped along with that Lewis and
Mercedes idea that that Amazon was
working on that gets scrapped. Although
listeners, we have heard rumors that
that one is back in the works now with
with someone else. F1 takes a big leap
of faith and gives Netflix and boxto-box
films complete creative control and
Final Cut, which I also think is really
important that like that this this is a
highly opinionated version with full
access that is not controlled by the
sport. The other really interesting
nuance here is Netflix is like, "Yo, yo,
we make highly produced content that
doesn't come out right away. We can't
turn around a new episode every week
during the season."
>> Right? Drive to Survive comes out right
before the next season starts. Once
>> always, always a season behind. In fact,
if you're listening to this episode,
then like 3 days ago, the most recent
season of Drive to Survive will come
out. So,
Mercedes, interestingly, declines to
participate probably partly because of
the documentary that they think they
have in the works at the time with
Amazon, but also because they're
Mercedes,
>> right? This seems like a risk.
>> They've just won everything you could
possibly win like eight years in a row.
They're very profitable or they're
getting very profitable at this point.
Why would you take any risks? And then
Ferrari looks over and says, "Well, if
Mercedes is out, we're definitely out.
We're Ferrari."
>> So things are actually looking kind of
dire. Netflix is left with the bottom
eight teams.
>> And they ended up creating something
really amazing out of Daniel Ricardo. I
mean, that first episode just hooked a
lot of people after the success of
seasons one and two, which we heard was
kind of a slow burn. People loved it if
they watched it, but the algorithm
wasn't surfacing it to that many people.
And over time they sort of realized, oh
wow, this is actually applicable to many
more people than we thought. Young women
across America and the world are into
this. And we thought it was going to be
50-year-old petrol head men or at least
we we feared that it might be. So we
sort of started in that narrow circle.
As it grows and grows and grows and
season 2 is doing well and season 3 was
this massive smash hit. Suddenly then
all the Mercedes and Ferrari partners
and sponsors are coming to them and
going why are we not in drive? not
getting these.
>> And so then of course in the later
seasons all the teams are in it.
>> Yeah. Amazing.
>> So the other thing you may remember is
seasons one and two were fully filmed,
released, and on Netflix when the
pandemic hit.
>> Yep.
>> But it was sort of like the perfect
thing for everybody to get really into
just when they were starting to get
trapped at home. And F1 actually did a
pretty amazing job of reacting to the
pandemic. Within a few months, they were
back on the track racing. They were
doing these clever sort of double
headers where they would race twice in a
row at the same track. They were
creating bubbles just like other sports
were creating bubbles. But the pandemic
was weirdly very successful for the
sport because they had drive to survive
ready to watch and the sport sort of
lent itself to their ability to recover
quickly.
>> Remember when everyone was uh building
an F1 simulator and playing the esports
too? Yeah.
>> Yes.
>> So eventually it would become the number
one Netflix show in 93 countries at
peak. And when you try to walk through
some of the numbers trying to figure out
what actually was the impact of this in
the first week, and that this is an
official reported number, there tend to
be over 500,000
accounts that view the new season just
in that first week. And with the Netflix
stuff, it's always reasonable to
multiply it by two or three because of
password sharing. So call it like a
million and a half people that watch
just in that first release week. We
heard elsewhere that in the fullness of
time a season of drive to survive is
viewed in the sort of low tens of
millions of accounts. So again with
password sharing you could generously
assume call it 40 to 50 million unique
people would watch the show
>> which by the way that is a huge number
of people watching a single piece of you
know non-live event non-sporting event
content.
>> In fact it's um here's a funny story. I
was watching Drive to Survive the most
recent season with my wife to prep for
this episode. And while we're watching
it and Christian her getting
interviewed, I made a comment of like,
"Yeah, it's crazy. He like gets fired.
He's not with with Red Bull anymore."
And she's like, "Whoa, spoilers."
And I was like, "That happened six
months ago." Like that's it. Her mental
model is real life is irrelevant. Drive
to survive is canonical. That's the
really unique thing about this sport is
how many more people are fans of the
sport but don't watch races.
>> Yeah. And this is where the modern
media business model that Liberty came
and embraced
thrives and Bernie World never could
have realized or seen this. Everybody
still makes money even when fans only
watch Drive to Survive. Why did the
Mercedes and Ferrari sponsors pressure
them to participate? It's all the
impressions of the sponsor logos.
>> Yeah. Okay. So, impact. Obviously, Drive
to Survive worked, but how do you slice
it? How how much? What stats did you
find, David?
>> So, one part of the Liberty strategy
that we hadn't hit yet because we were
saving it for Drive to Survive was bring
this sport to America.
>> Yes.
feels like it should have an audience
here in a way that it never had under
Bernie. And so Drive to Survive was a
big part of that strategy. So if you
look at F1 viewership in the US in 2018
before Drive to Survive launched, about
half a million Americans watched races.
In 2021,
that has doubled in three years to over
a million Americans watching F1 Grand
Prix. I don't know what percentage of
that doubling is attributable to Drive
to Survive, but it's not 10%, it's
probably more like 80%. Yep.
>> So then 3 years later on in 2024,
once there are more US races on the
calendar, which we'll get to in a
second, viewership of the Miami Grand
Prix in 2024 was 3.1 million Americans.
Now granted, that's optimal like a US
time zone, a US race, so there's natural
interest, etc. But like the idea that
3.1 million Americans would be watching
an F1 race before Drive to Survive,
totally insane.
>> It's more than most NBA games.
>> So that's just in America.
Globally,
F1 added 73 million new fans between
2020 and 2021 alone during the COVID
period. That's a 20% increase in fans
during CO.
>> Yeah. The stat on that in the US is that
the US now has 52 million American fans,
which has doubled since Drive to Survive
came out.
>> Most of those fans don't watch the
races,
>> right? The average viewership of a Grand
Prix in the US is about 1.3 million
people today. Miami is a giant outlier
at 3.1 million US viewers.
>> But there's all sorts of other ways that
fans can engage with F1 beyond the
races. And then probably the most
obviously directly attributable stat to
drive to survive. The percentage of F1
audience that is women
went from 7% to there are reports out
there that it's like 40% today
>> of F1 fans or women
>> of F1 fans again not watching the races
necessarily but follow the sport are
interested in what's happening.
>> Yeah. One uh quote I heard in research
was that Liberty helped F1 move away
from the male stale and pale audience.
>> Yes, that it certainly did. Thank you,
Daniel Ricardo.
>> Yes.
>> So, staying on the America strategy for
Liberty and F1. Obviously, adding races
in the US is a big priority here.
>> I think Austin went much better than
they thought it was going to.
>> Yeah. And Austin obviously launched
before Liberty bought the sport, but
>> they make it a priority. Uh, do you know
about the previous US track record with
>> Oh, it's awful. It's so bad.
>> They raced in Long Beach at one point,
right?
>> Yeah. So, anyone who's familiar with F1
today probably doesn't realize there
were nine different races historically
that attempted to run in the US, all of
which are defunct and they typically
only lasted a year or a few at a time.
>> So bad. The most successful one uh
longunning one was in upstate New York.
>> Yeah. Watkins Glenn, right?
>> They held Grand Prix in Phoenix. They
did have one in Vegas before, but it was
confined to just the Caesar's Palace
property and it was just like all tight
turns back and forth and back and forth
and back and forth. They were in Detroit
and they were also at the Indianapolis
Motor Speedway where the Indy500 is, but
they they never really uh made a good
impression.
>> Yeah. Well, there was a bad there was a
horrible thing where like half the teams
refused to race one year there, right?
And the fans revolted and threw stuff on
the track and like
>> Yeah,
>> it was bad.
>> Yeah.
>> So, the US track record not good. And
and then they come in and do brand new
from scratch built track for Circuit of
the Americas in Austin and does quite
well. You now have that. You've got in
the similar time zone window in the
Americas, you've got Mexico City, you've
got the Canadian Grand Prix in Montreal,
and you've got the Sa Paulo race. So,
you now have sort of four in this time
zone window. And Liberty and F1 really
go for it at this point.
>> Yes. So, pretty quickly after Liberty
buys the league, they start working on
adding another race in the US.
Uh and that becomes Miami which launches
in the 2022 season.
>> And then uh just one year later they
launch the Vegas race. But this is a
different type of race. There is no
promoter. Rather than charging a fee and
having someone else run the race, they
say, "Okay, we're going to forego the
promoter fee and we're just going to
operate this race oursel. We're going to
take all the risk and and get all the
reward." But it's a a pretty big bet
because they actually bought the real
estate to build the Paddock Club. So
after talking to a lot of the different
folks around F1, I would say it hasn't
been an obvious win. I I don't think
they will pursue this model
>> elsewhere. If I'm reading the tea leaves
right now, these things take a long time
to pay back. And I think they've sunk
over half a billion dollars into
building this out. And they really shut
down the city for a long period of time
and block off a lot of stuff to to make
it happen. It's much easier to run a
business where you say, you know what,
we're not going to keep every little bit
of upside for ourselves.
>> You guys handle that. We'll just take
the money.
>> Yes.
>> Bernie had some things, right?
>> Yes. You got a lot of things, right?
>> Yeah. But there are now six races in the
North American, South American time
zone, and the US is the biggest media
market in the world. So, they're leaning
in hard.
>> Yep. Well, speaking of the Paddock Club
you mentioned, it has totally
transformed
since Liberty's acquisition of F1. You
and I got to experience it with Service
Now in Vegas. We were just beginning our
F1 research at that phase and we left
for like weeks afterwards saying, "Oh,
F1 is a corporate sport. The consumer
side must really not be big at all." But
man, it's the most B2B thing we've ever
seen. There's a strategy interview that
Ben Thompson did with Mike Cannon
Brooks, the Atlassian CEO last year.
They're the title sponsor of Williams.
And Mike says this. He says, "Hey, we
view our Williams sponsorship and our F1
participation as we get to have a mobile
executive briefing center
>> that we can go around the globe
throughout the year and bring our
customers to this amazing event and have
an amazing customer example to show them
in Williams of how they use our
software." Like I don't think Atlassian
has a physical executive briefing
center. I think F1 and the Paddock Club
is their executive briefing center.
>> It's funny. Yeah. Since this was our
first experience with it, it it was
shocking to me realizing how large the
consumer element of the sport was
globally because in America it feels
like this like a little enterprise
software conference.
>> Exactly.
>> Okay. So, what are the economics of all
of this and how does that play into F1
as a business? So apparently the title
sponsorship at the front of the grid now
can be a $50 to hund00 million deal and
Oracle's title sponsorship of exactly
per year of Red Bull Racing is
reportedly a hundred million.
>> Uh other places site that the big title
sponsorships are are more around 50
million.
>> But either way, I mean really big
numbers and right in line with the
biggest deals that F1 itself does. So
the LVMH deal is $und00 million per year
and that's the Louis Vuitton banners
everywhere, Tag Hoyer being the official
timekeeping sponsor, the LV trunk and of
course they spray Moette all over each
other on the podiums. So you get sort of
um wrapped in a blanket of LVMH now when
you watch a a race.
>> Yes. And back to the impact of Drive to
Survive for a minute. Oracle's CMO said,
I believe on an earnings call
>> that Drive to Survive was the reason
that they decided to get into F1 and do
the big Red Bull sponsorship.
>> Really?
>> Yes.
>> Fascinating
>> that they weren't engaged with the sport
beforehand and then started to watch
Drive to Survive and that led to
>> Wow. ultimately, you know, multiund
million dollar investment over several
years.
>> 500 over five years is the the rumored
value. So, thank you Netflix for that
gift. So, the cheapest deals you can
get, let's say you want to slap your
logo on a car somewhere, you know, a
little under a bumper or something. Uh,
the cheapest deal is about a million
dollars and that's a back of the grid
car. The most valuable real estate, I
thought this was interesting. There's an
airbox on the car that sort of sticks up
behind the driver's head that you can
see from the side. Those go for the sort
of six to seven million dollar range.
And the logo placement on a driver's
chest is also very desirable. That's
about a million and a half, especially
toward the front of the grid. And this
really is the way that these teams make
money. It's about 60% of the revenue
comes from sponsorship. And the teams
are now averaging about $200 million of
total sponsorship per team. But average
is kind of the wrong way to look at it
because it varies wildly from front of
the grid to back of the grid.
>> Yeah.
>> The other big thing is that hospitality
is rolled in. So if you're entertaining
a client at a football game, like let's
say you do a big sponsorship deal with
an NFL team and you get a suite, you get
three to four hours together. And most
of that is actually consumed by watching
football because you care about it. It's
an exciting game. Anything can happen.
If you bring a client to an F1 race like
Service Now brought us, you spend three
days together and the race is only like
two hours and actually in the race
there's not that much you need to pay
attention to most of the time that
there's some really exciting moments and
you pay a lot of attention then, but
there's plenty of time for a
conversation otherwise. So, it's much
more conducive to forming real
relationships versus a traditional 2
three-hour sports game. And you get to
do it in geographies where your business
operates all over the globe, not just a
stadium near your office. And I even
heard some uh comments of sponsors
saying, "Oh, we didn't even bother with
a logo placement on the car. It's
actually more about the relationships
and hospitality."
>> Totally. So, I can totally see why if
your strategy is something like
Atlassian and this is our mobile
briefing center, it's really only F1. I
mean maybe like uh tennis or golf or
something like that that you could think
about as a alternative.
>> Here's my last bullet point on this.
Ultimately, this sport is a magnet for
sponsors because it is a global reach
for brand. It's humans pushing the
limits both in physical competition and
engineering cleverness. It's bleeding
edge technology and the sport is premium
if not luxury in its positioning in
almost every market around the world.
>> Yep.
>> All right. Meteorites.
>> Meteorites. Well, to put a bow on the
Liberty strategy, or at least the come
to America part of it, right after
Liberty takes over in 2017, they do a
deal with ESPN,
much like Bernie's original European
Broadcasting Union deal.
Liberty says, "Will you please show all
of the F1 races on the calendar on ESPN?
We will give it to you for zero dollars.
>> Was it actually zero?
>> It was actually zero dollars for the
2018 season and I think maybe 2019 2020
as well. We just want to grow the sport.
>> Yep.
>> Get something going, some traction in
America.
>> And ESPN, despite being a cable company,
not a broadcaster, does have huge reach.
It's the most valuable channel in every
cable package.
>> Yeah. If you're a sport and you want to
grow in the US, you need to be on ESPN.
Previously
F1 had bounced around for a while. It
was on the Speed Channel. Yeah. Yeah. It
was on NBC for a while, but only certain
Grand Prix. They didn't show the whole
season. Anyway, after Drive to Survive
in COVID, uh those rights become a lot
more valuable in America. So, ESPN comes
back in for another three-year round of
rights. In 2022, after the sport has
grown so much, ESPN does start paying
real money for the rights. Rumored 80 to
90 million a year for a three-year deal
for the US TV rights,
>> up from zero. That's huge.
>> The ESPN contract ends in 2025.
In the interim,
Apple had their own F1 media success on
their hands this past summer with the F1
movie with Brad Pit.
>> F1 the movie to say the title precisely,
David,
>> which grossed $630
million worldwide at the box office. The
highest amount not only for a racing
film, for any sports movie ever. and the
highest grossing
box office movie of Brad Pitt's entire
career. That's wild. And this massively
exceeded people's expectations. It It
kind of shouldn't like it was Brad Pitt.
It was beautiful camera work. It was a
feel-good story. It had incredible
special effects. It was the same
director and producer of Top Gun. Like
people were calling it Top Gun on Land.
>> Yeah. I mean, you can't go wrong,
>> right? The only thing working against it
really is it was a racing movie and
racing movies other than Ford versus
Ferrari haven't ever really been like
big box office smashes.
>> Yeah.
>> And even that was fine.
>> Well, nobody had ever made a racing
movie like this before,
>> right? So, if you do the quick math on
that 630 million and call it, I don't
know, $30 a ticket that you you come to
the number of 21 million tickets sold at
the box office. And depending on which
estimates you believe from our Drive to
Survive conversation earlier, there's a
chance that the movie actually reached
more people than Drive to Survive has.
>> Or at least it's kind of in the same
ballpark.
>> Yes.
>> Either way, both are home runs. So, on
the back of that, Apple comes in over
the top for the US media rights
negotiations with a five-year deal at
$150 million a year.
>> Rumored.
>> Rumored,
>> but probably close.
>> Probably close for the media rights. I
mean, on the one hand, sure, this is not
NFL dollars yet, but this is real money
for again a geography that was zero when
Liberty took over. was a huge deal to
get ESPN up from zero to call it 80 to
90. Now you're talking about almost
double that. And for Apple,
this is probably just the tip of the
iceberg of what they can do with F1.
>> Yeah. F. So if you think about the a
bullc case for F1 here, 33% of F1's
revenue comes from media rights. And
that 140 million is only 13% of the
total meteor rights worldwide which is
1.1 billion total. So this is you know
important to F1 but this is not the bulk
of their consumption and the bulk of
their media rights dollars are outside
the US. And hey, Apple's a global
company. Like, sure, they love their US
Apple TV subscribers and Apple
customers, but they love their European
Asian, Middle Eastern customers just as
much. They'd love
>> to show them, you could imagine,
>> F1 on Apple TV someday. And the the real
bullcase for I know we'll do Baron bull
casecase later, but just to pull this
one forward for F1 here is in a lot of
those markets like we were talking about
earlier they've got these vertically
integrated sort of the channel is the
broadcaster is the network thing and
they don't have a competitive bidder and
so with Apple with Netflix with uh more
likely Amazon I think than Netflix but
with streamers and with YouTube buying
meteorites now you have these tech
companies as real viable biders against
the, you know, one or two broadcasters
in the country. So, you actually can
sort of more fully realize the media
rights when there's a a real market for
them.
>> Yep.
>> But I will say, just so listeners like
are really grounded in this, US
viewership is only 1.3 million people
actually watching any given race with a
peak of 3.1 million at the Miami Grand
Prix. That is half of what NASCAR
averages. Like, this is not even the
number one motorsport in the US. and
actually quite far from the number one
motorsport in the US. International
viewership is 60 to 70 million people on
a race weekend. So there the US if if
they crack the code, man, the US has
running room ahead of it.
>> Yep. And I mean, hell, clearly it's
working so far.
>> Yes. All right. Before we catch up to
today, should we do the uh the quick
update on the teams that are hitting the
grid this year?
>> Yeah, got some new teams coming in. So,
we've got the return of consumer auto
manufacturers. Stake has become Audi.
Honda is partnering with Aston Martin.
Ford has joined with Red Bull as an
engine partner. Honda used to be the
partner who would make Red Bull's
engines in around 2019. And then in
2021, Honda left the sport. And Red
Bull, instead of picking another engine
supplier, they actually took it in-house
and started Red Bull powertrains with
Honda's technology and technical
support. And I think they hired a bunch
of the people away from Honda.
>> Yeah. This Ford partnership is actually
like a more of a partnership, right,
with Red Bull and less of a straight
we're supplying you the engine.
>> Oh, you Ford is very much not supplying
the engine to uh Red Bull. They are sort
of a uh engineering partner on Red Bull
power trains and I know there's
engineers sort of flying back and forth
and multiple uh Ford sites that are sort
of collaborating with Red Bull on
building their engines. A lot of shade
has been thrown at Ford saying that this
is just a marketing exercise and hey,
Red Bull was all prepared to take engine
manufacturing in house. So why do they
need Ford's help? Um, but speaking of a
marketing exercise, Cadillac is entering
the sport this year. And, uh, you might
say, well, that's a whole team. Like,
that's that's not just marketing.
They're really, you know, an equity
owner and and putting their best foot
forward. This is a team called Cadillac
that uses Ferrari engines and a lot of
other components, too. The whole power
unit, the gearbox. I mean, it's like
still a major deal that it's a major
American manufacturer that is joining
the sport, but this is a Cadillac with a
Ferrari under the hood. And Cadillac is
shelling out $450 million in a like an
expansion fee effectively just to join
the grid. It's just great for the sport
that all of this is happening and just
really reflects how far things have come
with relations with the teams and it's
so healthy that manufacturers are coming
back and the number of teams is
expanding. Dude, the the GM Cadillac
versus Ford kind of opposing case
studies are really interesting.
>> I kind of love the rivalry though,
right?
>> Yeah, the rivalry is amazing. sniping at
each other. They're really getting in
the F1 spirit
>> and it's really unclear like what you
should do and what the better strategy
is. You pointed out some of the
downsides in both. You know, the upside
for GM and and choosing to use Cadillac
as the brand is they own the team. They
can over time invest build this into a
powerhouse or if they can that would be
great. They're certainly going to start
in the back of the pack. It would be a a
real coup if they didn't. Whereas Ford
is coming in with Red Bull, one of the
top teams. Like they're gonna be on the
podium from season.
>> I know. It's kind of genius. Yeah. Real
big blue oval on that car. They
announced and unveiled the car in
Michigan. I mean, it was like a Ford Red
Bull event.
>> Yeah.
>> And uh
>> meanwhile, uh GM and Cadillac unveiled
theirs during the Super Bowl, right?
>> They did with a Super Bowl commercial
and then with an activation in Times
Square.
>> Yep.
>> But I love it. I I love to see it.
>> Yep. And the other big thing for this
year is there's a new Concord agreement
complete with a full rewriting of the
rule set by the FIA.
>> So there's a resetting of the field.
>> And people always say these things come
with a big reset. But
>> do I think Mercedes and Red Bull and
McLaren are not going to be, you know,
three of the top four teams? No. I think
that's going to stay. Have we seen
anything in preseason from any of the
teams at the back of the grid where they
have some magic car that they've
developed? Not really. I mean, the
biggest thing I think we've seen is
Ferrari, who is a front of grid team,
uh, is doing something very clever to
create downforce with their exhaust, but
we'll have to see how that actually
plays out. Yeah,
>> we should say there's some excitement
around this new rule set where it's
going to enable more passing which make
should make for more dynamic races,
which I've been ripping on the whole
time. I do like watching F1 races, but I
do also think they could learn something
from the NFL and figure out how to make
it more competitive and a better pure
sport,
>> more exciting. Yeah, better product on
the field.
>> On the cons, man, there's a lot of
graping about these hybrid engines. the
uh what Max Versappen called it like a
souped-up Formula E car or some which is
you know it's it's actually perfect
Formula 1 drama that he's out there you
know making fun of the cars even before
the season starts but you know
everything from the the noise to the
Max's comment about how they drive to
the kind of confusing nature of watching
the sport and trying to on top of
everything else now understand the
strategy behind battery preservation
that that might be a little tough for
them to overcome in presenting to the
viewer, especially new viewers.
>> Yep. One thing that we heard kind of
unanimously from folks who've been
around the sport for a while, it's just
sort of a shame that no one can
experience the old cars. Yes. Anymore.
Like you can watch videos, you can
listen to audio.
>> Early 2000s V10. You just had to be
there.
>> But everybody says Yeah. There's nothing
like having one of those old big engines
go by you and just the sound and the
power and the vibrations or something
you would never experience anywhere
else. Certainly kills any uh you know
sustainability angle that Formula 1 is
trying to push these days.
>> Okay, I have a major beef with this. So
there's two reasons why they switched to
hybrid engines. One is road relevance
because 10 years ago or whatever,
everyone thought that electric cars were
going to take over the world or at least
hybrid cars were and it was good to
start investing in Formula 1 in these
technologies so they could trickle into
the cars that everyone's driving.
Adoption has been much slower than we
expected there. The other reason is this
sustainability push, which look, I'm I'm
all for sustainability. The carbon
footprint of Formula 1. It is absolutely
hilarious to me when people talk about
the sustainability of the power units
like the engines in the cars when they
are flying the whole circus around the
world every week on a fleet of seven
trip 7s. I mean, okay, the European
races everything goes by truck, which is
a little better, but it's still 300
trucks. If if you line these up, it
would form a convoy over five kilometers
long. And so I I was trying to like do
some math of okay, how much of the
carbon footprint is actually from the
power units themselves when they're
driving on track. During the 2019
season, the logistics operation, moving
the these cars in the circus around
accounts for 64 times the emission of
the cars themselves, even when you
include practice, qualifying, and races.
I mean, these F1 tanks have 30 gallons
of gas max, right? It's three 30-gallon
tanks over the course of a weekend, and
there's only 22 cars. It's a rounding
error. This is a complete farce.
>> I I think I'm hearing a passionate
argument from you to bring back the
V10s.
>> Bring I've never heard one and I want to
hear one. I don't know. My my general
belief on this is let the sport be the
sport and do whatever is going to be the
best sort of fan and driver experience.
And I think they are trying to cram too
many things into F1. Like let let it be
a sport.
Secondarily, let it be a innovation
playground for auto manufacturers, but
like don't die on the hill of
sustainable fuels. H how about just
putting two races really close to each
other and just rearranging the flight
calendar a little bit? That would that
would do so much more even if you just
change one race than any compromises
you're making on power units.
>> Well, you know what would make a really
big impact to American viewership of F1
races and adoption of the sport? If they
stopped going head-to-head with the NFL
on Sundays in the fall.
>> Yes. In research, we heard some strong
and very compelling arguments for uh
creating sort of a a mini season in the
spring for US time zones. Yeah. And kind
of staying over here, so it's good for
carbon footprint. It's great for
viewership because you get six races
that all build on each other and
excitement.
>> It great for US ratings, the biggest
media market in the world. I'm
amendable.
>> I I think it's a win-win. And bring back
the V10s. And you know, what do
Americans love more than loud engines?
That's right. That's right. All right.
The business today.
>> Tell us about the business today.
>> Yes. All right. So, Formula One Group
does $3.4 billion in revenue. And the
most recent numbers here are from 2024.
The revenue mix is the media rights,
which is broadcasting is exactly 33%
about $1.1 billion.
Race promotion is the next biggest
budget at 29% about a billion dollars.
Those are the fees from the race
promoters.
>> Exactly. Advertising and sponsorship is
the smaller bucket, 19%. That's $630
million. It is their fastest growing.
>> And to be clear, that's advertising and
sponsorship to the league to squad,
>> not to the individual teams,
>> which you'll notice, uh, that 630
million is pretty small compared to the
sum of all the teams. The teams earn
about $2 billion in total sponsorship
across all of them, which makes sense
because the teams actually have a lot
more to sell in the way of driver
access, hospitality packages, speaking
engagements, garage tours. Also, the
best sponsorship placements are on the
cars and the drivers, which the teams
own. So the the camera is actually
focused on those while the walls of the
track just kind of go whizzing by, which
is why they need to repeat the same logo
a thousand times on the wall of the
track for you to to get an impression of
it. So the the best assets that are
sponsorable actually belong to the
teams. You know, this is one of the
really unique aspects of F1 as a sport
that actually allow it to operate in
this really weird way where the league
is not owned by the teams because so
much of the media rights value de facto
will go to the teams. Like as the media
reach grows, the value of the team
sponsorship grows and that's their
primary revenue driver,
>> right? Yeah. It's a funny way to think
about it. their exposure grows,
therefore their own direct sponsorships
can grow.
>> Yeah.
>> So, back to the revenue mix we talked
about for the the parent company, 33%
broadcast, 29% raise promotion, 19%
advertising and sponsorship. Uh, and
then they've got this other bucket at
19%. That's hospitality packages, merch,
and licensing.
So, that's on the revenue side, total
3.4 billion. Now, let's look at costs.
The biggest cost is the distribution to
teams, which we haven't talked that much
about how this works yet. This couldn't
be more different than the way it works
in the NFL. The NFL splits the league
revenue exactly 32 ways, even no
questions asked. Communist capitalism is
delightful. The distribution to teams is
renegotiated in every Concord agreement.
Both the split with Formula One group is
renegotiated and the
>> distribution mechanisms amongst the
teams. Yeah,
>> exactly. They currently distribute about
37% of Formula 1 group's revenue out to
the teams which comes to 1.27 billion of
their 3.4 billion. There are three
components to how this formula works.
The first is equal participation. The
second is the constructor's championship
allocation, which is kind of
interesting. The driver's championship
has nothing to do with how prize money
is paid out. It's just about the
constructors. And then the third is uh
historical length in the sport.
>> Ferrari.
>> So for a long time, Ferrari was
guaranteed at least 5% of the total pool
just as like a thank you for being
Ferrari. You've been a part of the
series uh every year since its
inception. You help legitimize the
sport. You continue to help legitimize
the sport.
>> Absolutely.
>> This has gotten negotiated away a little
bit over time, but when you look at the
the the rumored distributions because
this is the Concord agreements are not
public. There is definitely still a
large chunk as a thank you Ferrari for
being Ferrari.
>> And you know what they're worth every
penny. So the stats that I've seen is
that even today in the Max vers stopen
Lewis Hamilton well I guess Lewis is now
with Ferrari but thinking
>> I know I still think I think it's
Mercedes. Yeah yeah yeah exactly even
today 30% of all F1 fans their favorite
team is Ferrari.
>> Wow. So when you blend those three
factors together, the participation
which is equal, the constructor's
championship allocation and the uh
historical length in sport, the
estimates are that the top team gets
around 14% of the pool and the bottom
team gets around 6%. So to keep the math
kind of simple, imagine it as the top
team getting 140 millionish in prize
money and the bottom getting 60
millionish.
This is a lot closer than it used to be.
The the constructors used to wildly skew
the distribution and the Ferrari premium
was even higher. But like this is
holding the sport back in my opinion.
You you get a positive feedback loop and
a negative feedback loop at the top and
the bottom. And so we're sort of stuck
in this world right now where the the
teams on the front four or five of the
grid stay there and the back stay there.
And you could make the argument that,
hey, making another 20, 30, $40 million
from the back of the grid is not going
to make you magically competitive.
But every little bit helps. And I think
these things are nonlinear. They sort of
spiral up or spiral down is maybe
another way to think about it. And for
every $10 million you get out of the
constructor's championship, you probably
can go find 20 or 30 more million in
sponsor dollars. So, a few people have
tried to tell me, "Hey, I actually don't
think money is really the answer here."
It's certainly not helping to keep the
back of the pack penalized with less
dollars per year.
>> Yep. People want to see the stars win.
>> That's true. But the bottom five may as
well not even be racing.
>> Well, you need you need them on the
grid. But
>> do you need some warm bodies there
>> just to like clog it up. They risk
causing crashes and getting in, you
know, the top few guys's way. And I
guess that throws a race up in the air
and anything can happen. But yeah, the
back of the grid's just the back of the
grid.
>> Yeah. But I can't imagine it being a
healthy state for the sport if there
were only five teams.
>> True. Very true. All right. So, back to
Formula 1 itself. By the numbers,
there's 830 million people who identify
as fans globally. This is different than
viewers. There are 450 million Global TV
viewers. The last time that they broke
this out and reported it in 2021 seems
to have become like a state secret since
then where they no longer report this
information. Now, on to team valuations.
So, as of 2025, Forbes estimates team
valuations at about $3.6 billion on
average. Average. This has been a huge,
huge growth recently. It's an 89%
increase in the last two years.
>> Wow. Wow.
>> It's completely night and day since they
put in this the the cost caps. I mean,
these these teams used to be basically
worthless in the Bernie era and now have
an average value of $3.6 billion.
>> Yes.
>> Every team is now north of a billion
dollars with the least valuable team H
at 1.5 billion. Then at the top end, uh
we've got
$6.5 billion for Ferrari. Again, not the
best business, but the most valuable
asset. Love Ferrari. Uh $6 billion for
Mercedes, 4.4 4 billion for McLaren and
4.35 billion for Red Bull Racing. The
multiples on these things are very
silly. Like if you compare them because
again most of these teams except for the
top three produce very very little in
the way of profit. And so if you look at
an NFL team, they actually spit off a
lot of cash. If you look at these teams,
I mean even the most connected to their
intrinsic value, Mercedes is trading at
30 times operating income. They trade at
values because they're scarce assets,
not because they are cash generative
assets.
>> Yes,
>> people got very excited when they
started not being absolutely horrible
businesses. And when they started being
fine businesses, everyone sort of pulled
forward many, many years of growth and
potential profitability into their
valuations. Or they basically said, "I
don't care what the valuations are at
all. I'm a sovereign wealth fund or deca
billionaire and this sounds fun."
>> Yes. And in defense of this, I can think
of a million reasons why being an owner
or part owner of an F1 team
>> makes sense
>> is a highly profitable trade for a
person or an entity. The funny thing is
a lot of these people if they're
currently cash flow negative if they
ever decided to sell the team would make
up all the cash that they lost in the
business ever from the asset
appreciation.
>> Right? It's almost like you're loaning
money to the team for a while and then
you get it back.
>> So market cap of Formula 1 itself. Now
remember Liberty bought in 2017 the
company for 8 billion with 4.4 billion
of that being equity value. Today in
2026, it has a market cap of 22 billion
with an enterprise value of 25 billion.
So, Liberty has done quite well turning
4.4 billion of equity in 2017 into 5x
that in 9 years. That's about a 22%
compound annual growth rate. So then on
top of the series itself, Formula 1
Group being worth $25 billion of
enterprise value, you look at the teams,
those if you sum them all up, are worth
another 36 billion or so, not including
Cadillac yet. And so there's a grand
total then of 61 billion of enterprise
value between the teams and Formula 1
itself. Interestingly skewed toward the
teams.
>> Yeah. And that is valuing the races at
zero, which I think the races probably
have value. What did you say? You think
that F1 invested in Vegas? Half a
billion.
>> Half a billion.
>> Okay. Let's say the Grand Prix are all
worth half a billion just as a swag.
There are 22 of them.
>> Yep.
>> Is that right? So there's another 11
billion in value.
>> You're assuming that's money well spent.
Well,
if if Formula 1 itself is willing to put
$500 million up to stand up a Grand
Prix, then
>> yeah,
>> that seems a reasonable proxy for the
value of a Grand Prix.
>> Yeah, that's a great point. So, you you
say, "Okay, the whole sport inclusive of
of races then has 70ish billion of
enterprise value all told."
>> Kind of a fun that
>> seems reasonable
>> like mental gymnastics to go through to
think about how the value all breaks
down.
Yep.
>> So then my key question the and and the
one the one unfilledin puzzle piece in
all of your minds should be Ben and
David are obsessed with the communist
capitalism of of the NFL and the fact
that the NFL, the NBA, MLB, NHL, these
are thin leagues. These leagues do not
retain earnings or or have their own
enterprise value. They are purely
distribution mechanisms where nothing's
left over at the end. They're like pass
through entities of of of a sort. This
is a fat league much like the UEFA
Champions League or IPL. It's a company.
It has its own earnings. It generates
profits. It has enterprise value. So the
key question you should all be thinking
about is are teams getting their share
of the overall dollars compared to what
Liberty gets? And how does it compare to
a league like the NFL where the teams
are entitled to all the profits? Well,
on the one hand, we can look back at the
percent of F1 management revenue that
goes to teams, which was 50% back in
2018 and has shrunk to about 37%
last year. So, something's going on
there. F1 is actually getting leverage
over the teams. On the other hand,
there's actually just not that much
operating income left over once Formula
1 pays for all the other stuff.
generated 492 million in operating
income on revenues of 3.4 billion.
So even if we take all that operating
income and we say okay what if we were
to distribute that 490 million to the
teams that would only grow the team's
distribution from 1.27 billion to 1.76
billion.
>> Yeah. In other words, the teams are
already making 72% of what they would
make if they owned the league because
there's just not that much profit left
over after all the cost to run the
league, after selling all the
sponsorships at the league level,
general overhead, administration, and of
course running the Las Vegas race.
>> Yep. I suspect if we were to have access
to all the books during the Bernie era,
that would be a very different story.
>> Yes. And I I think it's because what's
going on is Liberty is investing in the
sport.
>> Yes. Certainly there would be more
operating income if if Vegas was on not
on their books. It has reached this very
interesting equilibrium where if the
teams were making significantly less
than this 72% of what they could make,
I'd start going like, gosh, maybe they
should break away. Maybe the league is
keeping too much. But it somehow seems
like this 28%
uh of of
what the teams are leaving on the table
is like just right, you know.
>> Mhm.
>> The racing series is complicated and
expensive and has to maintain this big
global footprint and run this logistics
operation and ultimately we are not
starting from whole cloth here. the F1
management exists and it's just a matter
of every time the Concord rolls around
uh how much leverage do the teams have
in that particular year.
>> Yep. So that leads us to I think maybe
the most interesting question of the
analysis section for this episode, which
is
did F1 require Bernie?
>> Yes, that is the key question.
>> Get to where it got to.
Uh,
obviously there is this incredible
counter example out there with the NFL
of
a similar dynamic, arguably a much more
complicated dynamic because there were a
lot more teams in the NFL that needed to
be wrangled.
>> Yep.
>> It was heroes work by Pete Riselle to
get them all to buy into communist
capitalism.
I think though you did need a Bernie to
get F1 to where it is today
for two reasons. One, doing this episode
and telling the Bernie story has made me
appreciate much more how unique what
Pete Rosselle did at the NFL was.
>> It's like Dehawk at Visa.
>> Yes. He was an N of one person who did
an Nof of one job.
Uh, you could rerun that experiment a
thousand times and almost assuredly not
end up with the NFL today.
>> I mean, the other major US sports
haven't managed to do it.
>> Nope. I mean, the NBA is inching closer,
but still isn't there. Baseball's a long
way away.
>> Yep. At a minimum, I think you
absolutely needed a strong individual
personality to emerge at the right
moment in time. And for the NFL, that
was Pete Riselle in the 50s and 60s. And
for Formula 1, that was Bernie in the
70s. And then you're kind of at the whim
of the personality of that person. Is
there something about the other parties
you're dealing with and their
personalities
or something about the global nature of
the sport?
>> So, here's where I was going with the
second reason why I think you needed a
Bernie. The global nature of the sport,
uh, the insane logistics required to be
operating a global sport. You know, the
idea that an employee that that that the
teams, the F1 teams could have gotten
together and hired an employee like the
NFL did with Pete Riselle to go and
create all this. There's no way you
could incentivize
>> Yeah, that's a good question.
>> somebody in the right way?
>> Why was the NFL able to do it? Could
Pete Riselle have developed the same
structure in F1?
>> No, definitely not.
>> Why? to go and negotiate
with all of these teams, all of these
tracks, uh, all of these broadcasters,
the FIA and this crazy NGO rules regul
rules regulator.
>> Because of the complex multi-partiness,
you have to have the incentives of like
being your own entrepreneur with a
company.
Not just an entrepreneur. I think you
need somebody truly with Bernie's
background as a ruthlessness. Like you
need a street fighter to do this. Pete
Riselle was many great things, but he
was not a street fighter.
>> Yeah. Hm.
>> What do you think?
>> I largely agree with you.
>> You have uh nothing more to add in
Charlie's words here.
>> Nothing more to add. All right. Power.
>> Power. Yes. But actually first there's
something interesting to think about
which is power between teams.
>> So F1 has become about exploiting the
tiniest little advantages or cracks in
the rule book as we've talked about and
usually other teams can figure out what
you did and copy it very soon like
within a few races. There are some
advantages that last a whole season like
if you do something different in the
fundamental layout of the engine or
battery or gearbox that that will buy
you a year of edge if it is the correct
decision. And there's real magic when
you can do something that lasts multiple
seasons, like what Mercedes did where,
you know, I I I can't exactly explain to
you why, but something happened where
they were just better at designing the
car than anybody else and they won for
eight seasons or having a driver that
was just so much better than anyone else
in that era with Lewis Hamilton.
>> But those things are more operational
excellence
>> than strategy. I mean the drivers are
the ultimate definition of not a power
because anybody else can hire them,
>> right? Not a power. I think they exist
entirely outside the world of strategy.
It's it's uh competency. It's
operational excellence. And like being
good at aerodynamics and car design and
engine design is kind of that too. And
so the the thing that I would throw out
here is I think skill or operational
excellence is actually more important in
building a successful F1 team than
strategy. Because a lot of these ways
that you can win via strategy have a
short window that closes when other
teams can sort of quickly arbitrage the
value away. And from what I can tell,
almost all durable advantages
in F1 that last three, four seasons or
more come from operational excellence. H
yeah, I could probably make an argument
for scale economies too in that even
with the cost caps,
if you have more financial resources,
you're going to be able to
>> certainly more loopholes.
>> Hire the best driver. I mean, if you uh
have if if you have an extra hundred
million versus your nearest competitor,
you pretty much should be able to go
sign the best driver of the world.
>> Yeah. So at least there and like
>> you know that's I guess sort of more
like balance sheet financial scale
economies but
>> there does seem to be persistence in the
top teams on the grid
>> that doesn't seem related to power to
me.
>> Yeah.
>> Like what what power do
>> Oh. So you're just saying that you think
the top teams on the grid grid just are
uh they're just operationally better.
>> Yes. Competency. Skill competency.
Operational excellence. not a strategy
they pursued that differentiated them on
on a durable basis. I think that exists
yeartoear but not for a eightyear
winning streak.
>> I could see that by your argument the
teams are all about operational
>> the teams are powerless.
>> Yeah. Which I think is what you want
right a league. I think in sport, yes,
you you always want the most talented
and highest performing team to be able
to win and you don't want structural
barriers or advantages the way that you
sort of uh do want if you're a
capitalist investor.
>> Yeah, let's narrow this at least to like
the front half of the grid. Put the
bottom teams that are kind of always the
bottom. There's there's definite
negative power spirals for the yeah the
the the bottom set of teams. But for the
top half of teams
>> over the arc of a couple seasons
there is transference.
>> Yes.
>> Among that set.
>> Yeah. Okay. I buy it. I buy it.
>> Exactly.
>> And so thus there must not be real power
there.
>> Yes.
>> Great. I like it. All right. So back to
the Formula One group.
>> Yeah. Let's analyze the takeoff phase
different than the scale phase. Why did
it become the premier motor racing
series? Like why is it bigger than Lama
or Indie Car?
>> I can think of a few reasons. I believe
Formula 1 is the only racing car series
where pretty much everything is custom
engineered by the teams.
>> There's very little stock elements y to
it.
uh which inherently makes it more
interesting and exciting.
>> Yep.
>> Two, the prestige luxury oldw world
European royalty ties.
>> Yep.
>> Plus the crossover with Hollywood.
>> Yep. And once you have that, you can
kind of like hold on to it. Like that's
sort of cornered resource
>> that no other racing series once you
have it can get it.
>> Like rally racing may be cool. Grace
Kelly was never going to go to a rally
race. Yeah.
>> Or all the slew of celebrities who come
to F1 races these days.
>> Probably most important though, I think,
is the FIA's
explicit designation of Formula 1 as the
pinnacle. Yeah.
>> You have the more or less global
regulating body for many other
motorsports, though obviously not all.
FIA doesn't regulate NASCAR or Indie Car
stuff like that, but for many other
sports explicitly saying this is the
pinnacle,
>> right? So, you sort of have a like
regulatory granted monopoly.
>> Yes. Yes. It's like the royal seal of
approval.
>> Yes. Our normal capitalist forces aren't
really allowed to play out in the same
way because it's it's been declared it
is the number one motor racing series in
the world.
>> It's right there in the name, Formula
One.
>> Yeah. So that would be a cornered
resource in the power framework for
sure.
>> So now let's ask like a more literal
question uh which is just the the seven
powers framework applied to the Liberty
Media Formula 1 entity today. And the
framework for power is what is it that
enables your business to have persistent
differential returns or basically to be
more profitable than your closest
competitor on a sustainable durable
basis.
>> Yep. And the seven are scale economies,
network economies, counterpositioning,
switching costs, branding, cornered
resource, and process power.
>> All right. So, what is stopping someone
from eating Formula 1's lunch today?
>> What is stopping uh the teams from
breaking away and starting FOD? That's
the biggest thing is that your
suppliers,
>> both at the track side and at the car
side, could build something and go
around you. It's expensive and annoying
to do that.
>> Yeah, Formula 1 is pretty interesting as
a sports league in that it has inherent
network economies within the boundaries
of the sport. Yeah. of the Grand Prix
and the teams.
>> Yep. There's also real branding power. I
mean, people will tune in to watch F1 in
a way that they wouldn't tune in to
watch FOD.
>> It is designated as the pinnacle of
motorsport.
>> Yes.
>> Yes. Uh and they've got that as a
cornered resource uh that has been
designated by the FIA. I think that
that's what I would classify that as.
>> There are switching costs certainly for
the teams. major switching costs for the
teams and the circuits, too.
>> Yep. In fact, this is actually looking
like a very protected business the more
we analyze it that they're they're
pretty dug in with all their parties.
>> Look, I mean, it really speaks to how
powerful
the F1 group is that despite all the
years of abuse from Bernie, the circuits
and the teams never actually broke away.
>> Yep. Certainly scale economies. This
type of racing series is so expensive to
operate that you kind of have to have
this scale.
>> Yep. You have to amortize all the
overall costs of the league across a
series of 22 races.
>> 22 races across the teams across all the
viewers such that you can generate the
billion dollars in in media rights.
>> Yep.
>> Actually, I'm coming away feeling like
this is very defensible.
>> Very very defensible. Uh,
>> I guess the key to the whole thing is
fans continuing to care. All right,
Baron Bull.
>> Yep. Let's do it.
>> Okay, so I have a a table setting
exercise for us getting into this.
>> Great. Great.
>> So, there are 830 million global F1 fans
for a league that does 3.4 billion and
teams that generate another two billion
or so on top of what the league pays
them. So that's about five and a half
billion dollars gross total revenue
across the whole sport for 830 million
fans.
>> Wow. Sure feels like there's a lot of
room to grow there.
>> The NFL generates $23 billion of revenue
across just 180 million fans. So So
that's four times the revenue on
the number of fans.
>> Yep. The NFL monetizes a fan at $127 per
year and Formula 1 monetizes a fan at $7
per year. David, what is going on here?
>> Well, one major thing that is an issue
for F1, similar to IPL on our IPL
episode, uh they just don't have
anywhere near as much inventory, right,
as the NFL. 22 races a year and there
there's no path for them to get to a
hundred races a year
>> unless they start sending like just H
and Mercedes are going to head out to
this circuit on this day
>> and at the at the same weekend you're
going to see Red Bull. It's not
happening.
>> Yeah. So, they're just fundamentally
limited by inventory. Now that said, the
flip of that is they absolutely have the
opportunity, like Liberty identified, to
make those 22 races into 22 Super Bowls,
which they're well on their way to
doing,
>> right? They have to. So, there's that.
The biggest thing is the US is the
biggest media market in the world with
the highest uh revenue per consumer and
the highest subscriber fee per media
broadcast. And you just don't you don't
have penetration here yet. They're
working on it. So that I think is like
the easy answer. And then I think
inventory, you're right. There's sort of
a structural thing.
>> Yeah. And then that, you know, leads to,
hey, if you really care about growing
revenue and you really care about the US
strategy, you got to fix the race
calendar.
>> Yes.
>> You cannot be going up against the NFL
in the fall and especially not with two
of the three big US races in the fall.
>> Yep. So that's a bull case. They figure
that out. Another bull case is actually
around the European TV rights, the thing
we were talking about, they more fully
realize the value where you have actual
competition bidding for those rights.
And since so many of the viewers are
there, moving the needle a little bit
actually is a giant amount of revenue
change for F1.
>> Yep.
>> The uh last bullcase that I had thought
of that we haven't really covered yet is
a US driver or US team becoming world
champion.
>> Yep. that could really kickstart fandom
here.
>> Yep. I think there's a related bullc
case of a champion or champion level
female driver emerging in the coming
years. Feels like that's
>> going to happen, has to happen, should
happen. And given how much of the sports
fandom has already shifted
>> towards women thanks to Drive to Survive
and the movie, that feels like it could
be a further acceleration there.
>> Yep. bare cases. The biggest one that I
just keep hearing is that it is more of
a parade than a race. I mean, like
NASCAR, you have aggressive overtaking
lap after lap. It's just constantly
exciting. And F1 is this beautiful
competition, but so much of it is
strategy, engineering, stuff that
happens in qualifying, conserving
resources, pitting at the right time. It
takes away from the like natural
observability of the sport. And so the
bare case is that despite everything
they'll try to do in regulations to make
it more competitive, you know, these are
really big cars because of safety that
it's just hard to pass and you're really
incentivized to conserve fuel, not burn
your tires when you don't need to, etc.,
etc.
>> Yep.
>> Which puts a natural ceiling on the
amount of fervor around it.
>> Yep. One thing that I think you could
have argued a couple years ago was a
bare case, but I think has been put to
rest is
this was a COVID driven fad. I think F1
has proven enough staying power postco.
>> That's true. I probably would have bet
that actually it was a co fad in the US
one or two years after Drive to Survive,
which would have been wrong. I mean, it
was really in that category with like
COVID tropes like you got your Pelaton,
you got your F1 simulator, you're
watching Drive to Survive and Tiger
King. But of that set of activities,
F1 feels like one of the few that has
persisted.
>> Yep. If you're an investor, one reason
why you might not give it the multiple
that it used to have, like Liberty
bought it for 18 or 20 times earnings,
something like that. One reason you
might not be as generous in its future
growth is it's kind of optimized now. A
lot of the lowhanging fruit that was
available for Liberty to do is levers
that they have pulled. So everything
from here is going to be a little bit
more of like a multi-deade slog than
some easy quick fixes. Not that that's
really a bare case, but it won't show up
right away.
>> Yep.
>> This last thing that I just keep
thinking about, I don't know if it's a
bull case, bare case. It really could be
either is the broadcast right now, at
least when I watched it last season, do
leave a lot to be desired if you are not
super into the sport. So there's this
bullcase of bringing drive to survive
storylines into the race. Like let us
see the drivers before the race more.
After getting to know these people so
much on drive to survive, it felt weird
that I was watching a race and I like
didn't get any of their human sense.
>> Yeah, it's like a different
>> It's like are these the same people? It
says their names, but like I can't see
their face. I can barely hear their
voice. Like once or twice a race, I get
some little tiny amount of radio
chatter. So I think there there's more
you could do of like bringing the people
from drive to Survive into the race that
they're the same people, so you should
be able to do it. And second, uh data
visualization to make the dynamic
moments of the race like there are
amazing moments in the race, but make
them more understandable to new fans.
So, if we're likely to see an overtake
five laps from now when so and so has
the right tires and so and so else has
pitted, like exposing that, start
talking about it, building toward it,
and help me visualize it. Like, why is
that going to happen in five laps and
not two laps? Like a sensible way to
show, hey, that person on our little
thing, it says they're in first, but
really they're not in first because they
haven't pitted yet. And those other four
people have. So, like some of that
stuff.
>> Yeah. Help me understand better what's
going on. Yep. This is actually a
opportunity or or maybe we could frame
it as part of the bullcase for Apple's
involvement in the sport. You know, they
already developed special cameras for
the F1 movie. Uh Apple did.
>> Yep.
>> And they're bringing those to their
coverage of the races.
>> It's basically an iPhone and they
rearrange the components to fit in the
standard F1 camera package.
>> Yep. And it's not that difficult to
imagine some of the vision pro
technology being really gamecher on this
front for F1. I'm not even really
thinking about consumers wearing Vision
Pro and watching these things. But to
your point about seeing the drivers,
experiencing the drivers more during the
race, like Apple absolutely has the
technological ability and resources to
invest in in helmet cams, driver facial
recognition.
>> Oh yeah, they should reconstruction.
>> What do they call it in the Vision Pro
where uh I could take a video call
wearing the Vision Pro and it uses my
avatar.
>> Do do that with the drivers.
>> Totally.
>> I don't know. It'd be hard though. Their
faces are so squeezed in those helmets.
But you're right, there's technology
solutions to this.
>> Acquired doesn't need to do product
development for Apple and F1 here, but
like uh this is a bullcase for Apple
becoming a major partner of F1.
>> Yep. Anything else in Baron Bull?
>> That's what I got.
>> All right. Quintessence.
>> Oh man.
>> Listeners, this is where we try to land
the plane. What is the thing that still
>> the F1 car?
>> Yes. That uh to pit the car that we
still can't stop thinking about.
>> Box. Box.
>> Box. Box. Box. Box is left. All
right. So, here's mine. It won't come as
a shock to anyone, but I am so
astonished that this is a sport that
might be durably popular with a giant
group of people who never watch the
sport. I can't think of another sport
where that is true, where someone would
say, "Oh, I'm a big football fan, but
I've watched zero NFL games this year."
But there are lots of people who say
they love F1, who can name people, who
will buy merch, who will associate and
purchase from sponsors of teams, and who
can tell you who won the championship
last year, but will never tune in live.
And that might be like the majority of
the US audience.
>> Yep. I can't think of another one
either.
>> Yep.
My contestants, this is by far
the most complex sports business and
league certainly that we have studied
and it's hard to think of others at this
scale that might match it in complexity.
>> It's more akin to boxing or UFC with
this sort of a competition happens in a
place at a time. It's not anybody's sort
of home stadium. There's a promoter.
>> Yeah.
>> But this has 10 teams, not two fighters,
and they have $300 million race cars.
So,
>> with a thousand person teams behind it.
I was gonna make the point earlier in
the episode that it'd be like if the
equipment manager and an NFL team was
the most important person on the team
>> and had 800 people who worked for him or
her.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Uh I can't imagine any other sport
that is anywhere near as complex as
this. And so you've had this crazy
history as a result, but it's still been
durable because nobody else could pull
all of these disperate parties together
in the way that Formula 1 has managed
to.
>> The activation energy to do something
similar than this is prohibitively
insane.
>> Yes. Yes.
>> The next Formula 1 is not a direct thing
that looks like Formula 1. It's
something completely different that can
start small and grow organically from
here.
>> To the point you made a few minutes ago,
nobody would ever draw up a league that
looked like this on paper,
>> right? It's it's like wonderfully
organic.
>> Yes. Yes. And chaotic.
>> And it's funny, even though it is a
thick league or a fat league just like
IPL cricket is, that started out of
nowhere and was came out guns blazing
and burned hot and worked.
>> Yep.
>> And this is kind of the opposite. It
took 70 years.
>> Yep. All right. That's my quintessence.
What I got?
>> Carveouts.
>> Carveouts. Let's do it.
>> So, for anyone new to the show, this is
where we highlight one or two things
that we have loved recently that are
totally unrelated to the episode that we
wanted to share with all of you. So, for
my wife's birthday, we went to Marymore
Park in Seattle where they have a I
can't figure out it seems reasonably
permanent, but it's a tent with a cirle
show in it. And the show
>> told me about this
>> is called Echo and it is so awesome.
Cirusle it blows me away every time. But
the performers are just otherworldly in
their talent. They're unlike many live
performances. It's not like oh we'll see
if this works and if not I can bail out
and I have a a fallback plan. There's no
fallback plans. They hit their marks
perfectly every time doing absolutely
superhuman stuff in an awe inspiring
way. Go see it if you can or really any
Circus because it's just so so
impressive. I want to go see five more.
Like I I'm I'm in. I'm super.
>> Yeah, you make it sound like actually
really awesome.
>> If you appreciate N of one performers
who are doing something that well you
you'd have to train your entire life for
it and you're the very best in the world
and you make no mistakes and it's
coupled with like unbelievably creative
clever things where you think like how
did they even think of this? That's
Cirle.
>> Awesome. My second one is super quick.
The Seahawks just won the Super Bowl and
NFL Films released on YouTube a 40inute
cut of the game called Miked Up and you
get to hear a whole bunch of the players
talking to each other and it is awesome.
Uh whether you're a Seahawks fan
>> and it actually makes the game
interesting.
>> God, was that a boring Super Bowl and I
loved it.
>> Oh man, we had a great time.
>> God, that Super Bowl game was like an F1
race.
>> Yeah,
>> it was super super special doing the
innovation summit and then going to the
game with you. That was
>> that was
>> that was a real life moment.
>> Yeah.
>> All right. My first carveout is Tonal,
the exercise equipment. So, we have some
acquired listeners at Tonal and they
heard me on a previous carveout talking
about how I'd redone my home gym and uh
which I'm very happy about, but it is a
very small space is on my bottom floor
here in my San Francisco house and uh so
so space is at a premium. Before we
redid the space, I had a full squat rack
in there. I had enough room for that and
kind of don't have enough room for it
anymore. And so the folks at Tonal
reached out. This thing is awesome. It
just mounts to the wall and it takes up
no space. It's perfect and it's better
than a squat rack because I can do a
infinite number of strength training
exercises on it. So, uh, very happy user
of Tonal now. Thank you for making my
home gym much better. My second carve
out is continuing my truly amazing and
gratifying saga as a parent of my older
daughter discovering video games.
Because I've been documenting this whole
saga via carveouts for the last several
months, listeners have been reaching out
and one of my old classmates from
college, Ryan, actually sent me an email
about a game called Princess Peach
Showtime. Nintendo finally got the
picture that like, hey, girls are a
growth audience for them.
>> And they made a Princess Peach game
where Peach is the heroine. Peach goes
to a magical theater
>> and an evil witch named Grape takes over
the theater and Peach has to dress up in
different costumes and go reenact all
the plays
to save the theater. My daughter loves
this thing and it's been so fun to watch
her like become an expert at this game
the way that I fell in love with Super
Mario 64 back in the day. Uh it is so so
so cool. Uh so highly recommend to
anyone with little kids and a Nintendo
Switch, go get Princess Peach Showtime.
And especially if you have a young
daughter, might be their gateway into
video games.
>> Nice. Well, we have some thank yous and
lots of great people we spoke with this
episode. But first to our partners this
season. JP Morgan Payments, trusted,
reliable payments infrastructure for
your business no matter the scale.
That's jpmorggan.com/acquired.
Verscell, the developer tools and cloud
infrastructure to build and scale fast,
secure applications on the web.
Verscell.com/acquired
to Service Now, the platform that puts
AI to work for people. That's
serviceow.com/acquired
and to stats, bringing experimentation,
feature flags, and product analytics
into one unified system for product
teams. stats.com/acquired.
As always, you can click the links in
the show notes to learn more or see all
of our sources. And special thank you as
always to Arvin Navaratnam at Worldly
Partners for his awesome, awesome
writeup on Formula 1 linked in the show
notes.
>> Arvin really did a banger job. It's he
does a great job every time, but like
this was a bad
>> he's become a real indispensable part of
uh of research for acquired episodes.
>> Similarly, on my end, thank you again to
Joshua Robinson and Jonathan Kle at the
Wall Street Journal, authors of the
formula. Truly the best business history
book on F1 out there.
>> All right, and I've got a great list
here. Big thank you to Zack Brown, the
CEO at McLaren Racing. Thanks so much
for your time and prepping. to Greg
Mafay, the former CEO of Liberty Media
when they of course bought Formula 1
from CBC. Thanks, Greg, for helping me
understand the whole company. To Brandon
Reg, who oversees non-fiction and sports
at Netflix, very helpful for
understanding Netflix's strategy with
Drive to Survive and the impacts it had.
To James Gay Ree, the co-founder of
Boxtobox Films, the production company
behind Drive to Survive. to Eddie Q at
Apple, longtime Formula 1 fan, and of
course who recently bought the US
broadcast rights to Pavangami, Alex
Knight, and Jimmy Fairbanks, who are
equity investors and analysts who really
helped me understand the investor
perspective on Formula 1 Group and
Liberty Media. To Sid Trevetti, partner
at Foundation Capital and lifelong F1
fan to John Nafi, the former vice
chairman of McLaren Racing. And from
Ford, Will Ford and Mark Rushbrook, who
obviously did the big engine partnership
with Red Bull Racing. Thanks for your
time, guys.
>> Yep.
>> To Nathan Bashez, my good friend and
longtime F1 fan. To our friends at
Shopify, Toby Lutka and Male Paraken.
Both total motorsports nuts. And uh Toby
actually races in another racing series,
so kind of fun to get his uh his
perspective as a driver.
>> Toby.
to uh Andrew Craig, former chairman of
Indie Car and sports marketing
consultant. To Mike Miller, former Wall
Street Journal editor, who helped us
think through a lot of the big beats on
the story on this one, to our friend
Dustin Sedwick, who has done
partnerships and sponsorships with teams
and races all over the course of his
career. To Colin Fleming and the whole
Service Now team for bringing us to the
Paddock Club for the Las Vegas Grand
Prix for some first party research. to
Bobby Epstein, CEO of the Austin track
circuit of the Americas and promoter of
the US Grand Prix. And lastly, to our
friends at DUPA for providing us with
some amazing financial models and
spreadsheets of all the historical data
on Formula 1, just like they did for us
on Coca-Cola and Google.
>> Yep. And just one more on my end to
Chase Carrie, uh, board member now of
Liberty and Fox, but obviously former
CEO of the F1 Group. Yep.
>> Thanks for chatting with us.
really uh quite the cast this time.
David, these lists are getting a little
nuts. In addition to all the people that
we aren't even saying that that helped
us, too. So, thanks if if you didn't
hear your name.
>> Yes.
>> All right. If you like this episode, go
check out our other sports episodes, the
NFL, NBA, IPL, Cricket. Some good ones
in there. And uh now, if you're fired up
about F1, the first race is just a few
days away. So, if you want to see any
images from this episode, you can join
our email list, acquired.fm/email.
fm/email. We'll also share our big
takeaways from every episode, episode
summaries, uh where you're going to get
involved in helping us pick future
episodes. We we do polls and little
hints to that email list of what our
next episode will be. So, sign up at
acquired.fm/e
and come talk about it in the Slack at
acquired.fm/slack.
With that, listeners, we'll see you next
time.
>> We'll see you next time.
>> Who got the truth?
Is it you? Is it you? Is it you who got
the truth now? Huh?